 
 
 
 Evaluating Models’ Local Decision Boundaries via Contrast Sets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 2 Contrast Sets 
 
 2.1 The Problem 
 2.2 Definitions 
 2.3 Contrast sets in practice 
 2.4 Design Choices of Contrast Sets 
 
 Post-hoc Construction of Contrast Sets 
 Crowdsourcing Contrast Sets 
 Automatic Construction of Contrast Sets 
 Adversarial Construction of Contrast Sets 
 
 2.5 Limitations of Contrast Sets 
 
 Solely Negative Predictive Power 
 Dataset-Specific Instantiations 
 
 
 3 How to Create Contrast Sets 
 
 DROP 
 NLVR2 
 UD Parsing 
 Summary 
 
 4 Datasets and Experiments 
 
 4.1 Original Datasets 
 4.2 Contrast Set Construction 
 4.3 Models Struggle on Contrast Sets 
 4.4 Humans Succeed On Contrast Sets 
 4.5 Fine-Grained Analysis of Contrast Sets 
 
 5 Related Work 
 
 Training on Perturbed Examples 
 Challenge Sets 
 Recollecting Test Sets 
 
 6 Conclusion 
 References 
 A Dataset Details 
 
 Natural Language Visual Reasoning 2 
 Internet Movie Database 
 Temporal relation extraction 
 English UD Parsing 
 Reasoning about perspectives 
 Discrete Reasoning Over Paragraphs 
 Quoref 
 Reasoning Over Paragraph Effects in Situations 
 BoolQ 
 MC-TACO 
 
 B Contrast Set Details 
 
 B.1 NLVR2 
 
 Text Perturbation Strategies 
 Image Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 
 B.2 IMDb 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 
 B.3 MATRES 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 Analysis 
 
 B.4 Syntactic Parsing 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 Analysis 
 
 B.5 PERSPECTRUM 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 
 B.6 DROP 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 Analysis 
 
 B.7 Quoref 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 
 B.8 ROPES 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 
 B.9 BoolQ 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 
 B.10 MC-TACO 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 
 Model 
 Contrast Set Statistics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: CC BY 4.0
 
 
arXiv:2004.02709v2 [cs.CL] 01 Oct 2020 
 
 
 Evaluating Models’ Local Decision Boundaries via Contrast Sets 
 
 
 
 
 
 Matt Gardner  Yoav Artzi  Victoria Basmova  Jonathan Berant 
 
 Ben Bogin  Sihao Chen  Pradeep Dasigi  Dheeru Dua  Yanai Elazar 
 
 Ananth Gottumukkala  Nitish Gupta  Hanna Hajishirzi  Gabriel Ilharco 
 
 Daniel Khashabi  Kevin Lin  Jiangming Liu  Nelson F. Liu 
 
 Phoebe Mulcaire  Qiang Ning  Sameer Singh  Noah A. Smith 
 
 Sanjay Subramanian  Reut Tsarfaty  Eric Wallace  Ally Zhang  Ben Zhou 
 
 
 Affiliation:  Allen Institute for AI
 
 Affiliation:  Cornell University
 
 Affiliation:  Tel-Aviv University
 
 Affiliation:  University of Pennsylvania
 
 Affiliation:  University of Washington
 
 Affiliation:  UC Irvine
 
 Affiliation:  UC Berkeley University of Edinburgh
 
 Affiliation:  Stanford University
 
 Email:  mailto:mattg@allenai.orgmattg@allenai.org 
 
 
 Affiliation:  Bar-Ilan University
 

 Abstract 
 
 Standard test sets for supervised learning evaluate in-distribution generalization. Unfortunately,
when a dataset has systematic gaps (e.g., annotation artifacts), these evaluations are misleading:
a model can learn simple decision rules that perform well on the test set but do not capture
the abilities a dataset is intended to test. We propose a more rigorous annotation paradigm for NLP that helps to close
systematic gaps in the test data. In particular, after a dataset is constructed, we recommend that
the dataset authors manually perturb the test instances in small but meaningful ways that
(typically) change the gold label, creating contrast sets . Contrast sets provide a local
view of a model’s decision boundary, which can be used to more accurately evaluate a model’s true
linguistic capabilities. We demonstrate the efficacy of contrast sets by creating them for
10 diverse NLP datasets (e.g., DROP reading comprehension, UD parsing, and IMDb sentiment
analysis). Although our contrast sets are not explicitly adversarial, model performance is
significantly lower on them than on the original test sets—up to 25% in some cases. We release
our contrast sets as new evaluation benchmarks and encourage future dataset construction efforts
to follow similar annotation processes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 
 
 
 
 Matt Gardner led the project. All other authors are listed in alphabetical order. 
 
 
 Progress in natural language processing (NLP) has long been measured with standard benchmark
datasets  ( Marcus et al., 1993 , e.g.,) . These benchmarks help to provide a uniform evaluation
of new modeling developments. However, recent work shows a problem with this standard evaluation
paradigm based on i.i.d.  test sets: datasets often have systematic gaps (such as those due to
various kinds of annotator bias) that (unintentionally) allow simple decision rules to perform well
on test data  Chen et al. (2016) ; Gururangan et al. (2018) ; Geva et al. (2019) . This is strikingly
evident when models achieve high test accuracy but fail on simple input
perturbations  Jia and Liang (2017) ; Feng et al. (2018) ; Ribeiro et al. (2018a) , challenge
examples  Naik et al. (2018) , and covariate and label
shifts  Ben-David et al. (2010) ; Shimodaira (2000) ; Lipton et al. (2018) . 
 
 
 To more accurately evaluate a model’s true capabilities on some task, we must collect data that
fills in these systematic gaps in the test set. To accomplish this, we expand on long-standing ideas of constructing minimally-constrastive examples  ( Levesque et al., 2011 , e.g.) . We propose that dataset authors
manually perturb instances from their test set, creating contrast sets which characterize the correct decision boundary near the test instances (Section  2 ). Following the
dataset construction process, one should make small but (typically) label-changing modifications to
the existing test instances (e.g., Figure 1 ). These perturbations should be small,
so that they preserve whatever lexical/syntactic artifacts are present in the original example, but
change the true label. They should be created without a model in the loop, so as not to bias
the contrast sets towards quirks of particular models. Having a set of contrasting perturbations
for test instances allows for a consistency metric that measures how well a model’s decision
boundary aligns with the “correct” decision boundary around each test instance. 
 
 
 Perturbed test sets only need to be large enough to draw substantiated conclusions about model
behavior and thus do not require undue labor on the original dataset authors. We show that using
about a person-week of work can yield high-quality perturbed test sets of approximately 1000
instances for many commonly studied NLP benchmarks, though the amount of work varies greatly (Section  3 ). 
 
 
 We apply this annotation paradigm to a diverse set of 10 existing NLP datasets—including
visual reasoning, reading comprehension, sentiment analysis, and syntactic parsing—to demonstrate
its wide applicability and efficacy (Section  4 ). Although contrast sets are not
intentionally adversarial, state-of-the-art models perform dramatically worse on our contrast sets
than on the original test sets, especially when evaluating consistency.
We believe that contrast sets provide a more accurate reflection of a model’s true performance, and
we release our datasets as new benchmarks. 
 1 
 
 
 
 All of our new test sets are available at
 https://allennlp.org/contrast-sets . We
recommend that creating contrast sets become standard practice for NLP datasets. 
 
 
 
 2 Contrast Sets 

 
 
 
 Figure 2: An illustration of how contrast sets provide a more comprehensive model evaluation when datasets have systematic gaps. 
 
 
 
 2.1 The Problem 

 
 We first give a sketch of the problem that contrast sets attempt to solve in a toy two-dimensional classification setting as shown in
Figure  2 . Here, the true underlying data distribution requires a complex
decision boundary (Figure  2(a) ). However, as is common in practice, our toy dataset
is rife with systematic gaps (e.g., due to annotator bias, repeated patterns, etc.). This causes
simple decision boundaries to emerge (Figure  2(b) ). And, because our biased dataset is
split i.i.d.  into train and test sets, this simple decision boundary will perform well on
test data. Ideally, we would like to fill in all of a dataset’s systematic gaps, however, this is
usually impossible. Instead, we create a contrast set : a collection of instances tightly
clustered in input space around a single test instance, or pivot 
(Figure  2(c) ; an -ball in our toy example). This contrast set allows us
to measure how well a model’s decision boundary aligns with the correct decision boundary local to
the pivot. In this case, the contrast set demonstrates that the model’s simple decision boundary is
incorrect. We repeat this process around numerous pivots to form
entire evaluation datasets. 
 
 
 When we move from toy settings to complex NLP tasks, the precise nature of a “systematic gap” in
the data becomes harder to define. Indeed, the geometric view in our toy examples does not correspond directly to experts’ perception of data; there are many ways to “locally perturb” natural language. We do not expect intuition, even of experts, to exhaustively reveal gaps. 
 
 
 Nevertheless, the presence of these gaps is
well-documented  Gururangan et al. (2018) ; Poliak et al. (2018) ; Min et al. (2019) , and Niven and Kao (2019) give an initial attempt at formally characterizing them.
In particular, one common source is annotator bias from data collection
processes  Geva et al. (2019) . For example, in the SNLI dataset  Bowman et al. (2015) ,
 Gururangan et al. (2018) show that the words sleeping , tv , and cat 
almost never appear in an entailment example, either in the training set or the test set, though
they often appear in contradiction examples. This is not because these words are particularly
important to the phenomenon of entailment; their absence in entailment examples is a
 systematic gap in the data that can be exploited by models to achieve artificially high test
accuracy. This is but one kind of systematic gap; there are also biases due to the
writing styles of small groups of annotators  Geva et al. (2019) , the distributional biases in
the data that was chosen for annotation, as well as numerous other biases that are more subtle and
harder to discern  Shah et al. (2020) . 
 
 
 Completely removing these gaps in the initial data collection process would be ideal, but is likely
impossible—language has too much inherent variability in a very high-dimensional space. Instead, we use contrast sets to fill in gaps in the test data to give more thorough
evaluations than what the original data provides. 
 
 
 
 2.2 Definitions 

 
 We begin by defining a decision boundary as a partition of some space into labels. 
 2 
 
 
 
 In this discussion we are talking about the true decision boundary, not a model’s decision boundary. This partition can be represented by the set of all points in the space with their associated labels: . This definition differs somewhat from the canonical definition, which is a collection of hypersurfaces that separate labels. There is a bijection between partitions and these sets of hypersurfaces in continuous spaces, however, so they are equivalent definitions. We choose to use the partition to represent the decision boundary as it makes it very easy to define a local decision boundary and to generalize the notion to discrete spaces, which we deal with in NLP. 
 
 
 A local decision boundary around some pivot is the set of all points and their associated labels that are within some distance of . That is, a local decision boundary around is the set . Note here that even though a “boundary” or “surface” is hard to visualize in a discrete input space, using this partition representation instead of hypersurfaces gives us a uniform definition of a local decision boundary in any input space; all that is needed is a distance function . 
 
 
 A contrast set is any sample of points from a local decision boundary around . In other words, consists of inputs that are similar to according to some distance function . Typically these points are sampled such that . To evaluate a model using these contrast sets, we define the contrast consistency of a model to be whether it makes correct predictions on every element in the set: . Since the points were chosen from the local decision boundary, we expect contrast consistency on expert-built contrast sets to be a significantly more accurate evaluation of whether model predictions match the task definition than a random selection of input / output pairs. 
 
 
 
 2.3 Contrast sets in practice 

 
 Given these definitions, we now turn to the actual construction of contrast sets in practical NLP settings. There were two things left unspecified in the definitions above: the distance function to use in discrete input spaces, and the method for sampling from a local decision boundary. While there has been some work trying to formally characterize distances for adversarial robustness in NLP  Michel et al. (2019) ; Jia et al. (2019) , we find it more useful in our setting to simply rely on expert judgments to generate a similar but meaningfully different given , addressing both the distance function and the sampling method. 
 
 
 Future work could try to give formal treatments of these issues, but we believe expert judgments are sufficient to make initial progress in improving our evaluation methodologies. And while expert-crafted contrast sets can only give us an upper bound on a model’s local alignment with the true decision boundary, an upper bound on local alignment is often more informative than a potentially biased i.i.d. evaluation that permits artificially simple decision boundaries. To give a tighter upper bound, we draw pivots from some i.i.d. test set, and we do not provide i.i.d. contrast sets at training time, which could provide additional artificially simple decision boundaries to a model. 
 
 
 Figure 1 displays an example contrast set for the NLVR2 visual
reasoning dataset  Suhr and Artzi (2019) . Here, both the sentence and the image are modified in small
ways (e.g., by changing a word in the sentence or finding a similar but different image) to make the
output label change. 
 
 
 A contrast set is not a collection of adversarial examples  Szegedy et al. (2014) .
Adversarial examples are almost the methodological opposite of contrast sets: they change the input
such that a model’s decision changes but the gold label does
not  Jia and Liang (2017) ; Wallace et al. (2019a) . On the other hand, contrast sets are model-agnostic, constructed by experts to characterize whether a model’s decision boundary locally aligns to the true decision boundary around some point. Doing this requires input changes that also induce changes to the gold label. 
 
 
 We recommend that the original dataset authors—the experts on the linguistic phenomena intended to be reflected in
their dataset—construct the contrast sets. This is best done by first identifying a list of
phenomena that characterize their dataset. In syntactic parsing, for example, this list might
include prepositional phrase attachment ambiguities, coordination scope, clausal attachment, etc.
After the standard dataset collection process, the authors should sample pivots from their test set
and perturb them according to the listed phenomena. 
 
 
 
 2.4 Design Choices of Contrast Sets 

 
 Here, we discuss possible alternatives to our approach for constructing contrast sets and our
reasons for choosing the process we did. 
 
 
 Post-hoc Construction of Contrast Sets 

 
 Improving the evaluation for existing datasets
well after their release is usually too late: new models have been designed, research papers have
been published, and the community has absorbed potentially incorrect insights. Furthermore, post-hoc
contrast sets may be biased by existing models. We instead recommend that new datasets include
contrast sets upon release, so that the authors can characterize beforehand when they will be
satisfied that a model has acquired the dataset’s intended capabilities. Nevertheless, contrast sets
constructed post-hoc are still better than typical i.i.d.  test sets, and where feasible we
recommend creating contrast sets for existing datasets (as we do in this work). 
 
 
 
 Crowdsourcing Contrast Sets 

 
 We recommend that the dataset authors construct contrast
sets themselves rather than using crowd workers. The original authors are the ones who best
understand their dataset’s intended phenomena and the distinction between in-distribution and
out-of-distribution examples—these ideas can be difficult to distill to non-expert crowd workers.
Moreover, the effort to create contrast sets is a small fraction of the effort required to produce a
new dataset in the first place. 
 
 
 
 Automatic Construction of Contrast Sets 

 
 Automatic perturbations, such as paraphrasing
with back-translation or applying word replacement rules, can fill in some parts of the gaps around
a pivot  ( Ribeiro et al., 2018b ; Ribeiro et al., 2019 , e.g.,) . However, it is very
challenging to come up with rules or other automated methods for pushing pivots across a
decision boundary —in most cases this presupposes a model that can already perform the intended
task. We recommend annotators spend their time constructing these types of examples; easier examples
can be automated. 
 
 
 
 Adversarial Construction of Contrast Sets 

 
 Some recent datasets are constructed using
baseline models in the data collection process, either to filter out examples that existing models
answer correctly  ( Dua et al., 2019 ; Dasigi et al., 2019 , e.g.,) or to generate adversarial inputs
 ( Zellers et al., 2018 ; Zellers et al., 2019 ; Wallace et al., 2019b ; Nie et al., 2019 , e.g.,) . Unlike
this line of work, we choose not to have a model in the loop because this can bias the data
to the failures of a particular model  ( Zellers et al., 2019 , cf.) , rather than generally
characterizing the local decision boundary. We do think it is acceptable to use a model on
a handful of initial perturbations to understand which phenomena are worth spending time on, but
this should be separate from the actual annotation process—observing model outputs while
perturbing data creates subtle, undesirable biases towards the idiosyncrasies of that model. 
 
 
 
 
 2.5 Limitations of Contrast Sets 

 
 Solely Negative Predictive Power 

 
 Contrast sets only have negative predictive power: they
reveal if a model does not align with the correct local decision boundary but cannot confirm
that a model does align with it. This is because annotators cannot exhaustively label all
inputs near a pivot and thus a contrast set will necessarily be incomplete. However, note that this
problem is not unique to contrast sets—similar issues hold for the original test set as well as
adversarial test sets  Jia and Liang (2017) , challenge sets  Naik et al. (2018) , and input
perturbations  Ribeiro et al. (2018a) ; Feng et al. (2018) . See
 Feng et al. (2019) for a detailed discussion of how dataset analysis methods only have
negative predictive power. 
 
 
 
 Dataset-Specific Instantiations 

 
 The process for creating contrast sets is
 dataset-specific : although we present general guidelines that hold across many tasks,
experts must still characterize the type of phenomena each individual dataset is intended to
capture. Fortunately, the original dataset authors should already have thought deeply about
such phenomena. Hence, creating contrast sets should be well-defined and relatively straightforward. 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 How to Create Contrast Sets 

 
 Here, we walk through our process for creating contrast sets for three datasets. Examples are shown in Figure  1 and Table  1 . 
 
 
 DROP 

 
 DROP  Dua et al. (2019) is a reading comprehension dataset that is intended to
cover compositional reasoning over numbers in a paragraph, including filtering, sorting, and
counting sets, and doing numerical arithmetic. The data has three main sources of paragraphs, all
from Wikipedia articles: descriptions of American football games, descriptions of census results,
and summaries of wars. There are many common patterns used by the crowd workers that make some
questions artificially easy: 2 is the most frequent answer to How many…? questions,
questions asking about the ordering of events typically follow the linear order of the paragraph,
and a large fraction of the questions do not require compositional reasoning. 
 
 
 Our strategy for constructing contrast sets for DROP was three-fold. First, we added more
compositional reasoning steps. The questions about American football passages in the original data
very often had multiple reasoning steps (e.g., How many yards difference was there between the
Broncos’ first touchdown and their last? ), but the questions about the other passage types did not.
We drew from common patterns in the training data and added additional reasoning steps to questions
in our contrast sets. Second, we inverted the semantics of various parts of the question. This
includes perturbations such as changing shortest to longest , later to
 earlier , as well as changing questions asking for counts to questions asking for sets
( How many countries… to Which countries… ). Finally, we changed the ordering of
events. A large number of questions about war paragraphs ask which of two events happened first. We
changed (1) the order the events were asked about in the question, (2) the order that the events
showed up in the passage, and (3) the dates associated with each event to swap their temporal order. 
 
 
 
 NLVR2 

 
 We next consider NLVR2, a dataset where a model is given a sentence about two
provided images and must determine whether the sentence is true  Suhr et al. (2019) . The data
collection process encouraged highly compositional language, which was intended to require
understanding the relationships between objects, properties of objects, and counting. We constructed
NLVR2 contrast sets by modifying the sentence or replacing one of the images with freely-licensed
images from web searches. For example, we might change The left image contains twice the
number of dogs as the right image to The left image contains three times the number
of dogs as the right image . Similarly, given an image pair with four dogs in the left and two dogs
in the right, we can replace individual images with photos of variably-sized groups of dogs. The
textual perturbations were often changes in quantifiers (e.g., at least one to exactly
one ), entities (e.g., dogs to cats ), or properties thereof (e.g., orange glass 
to green glass ). An example contrast set for NLVR2 is shown in Figure  1 . 
 
 
 
 UD Parsing 

 
 Finally, we discuss dependency parsing in the universal dependencies (UD)
formalism  Nivre et al. (2016) . We look at dependency parsing to show that contrast sets apply not only to
modern “high-level” NLP tasks but also to longstanding linguistic analysis tasks. We first chose
a specific type of attachment ambiguity to target: the classic problem of prepositional phrase (PP)
attachment  Collins and Brooks (1995) , e.g. We ate spaghetti with forks versus
 We ate spaghetti with meatballs . We use a subset of the English UD treebanks:
GUM  Zeldes (2017) , the English portion of LinES  Ahrenberg (2007) , the English portion
of ParTUT  Sanguinetti and Bosco (2015) , and the dependency-annotated English Web
Treebank  Silveira et al. (2014) . We searched these treebanks for sentences that include a
potentially structurally ambiguous attachment from the head of a PP to either a
noun or a verb. We then perturbed these sentences by altering one of their noun phrases such that
the semantics of the perturbed sentence required a different attachment for the PP. We then re-annotated these perturbed sentences to indicate the new attachment(s). 
 
 
 
 
 Summary 

 
 While the overall process we recommend for constructing contrast sets is simple
and unified, its actual instantiation varies for each dataset. Dataset authors should use their best
judgment to select which phenomena they are most interested in studying and craft their contrast
sets to explicitly test those phenomena. Care should be taken during contrast set construction to ensure that the phenomena present in contrast sets are similar to those present in the original test set; the purpose of a contrast set is not to introduce new challenges, but to more thoroughly evaluate the original intent of the test set. 
 
 
 
 
 4 Datasets and Experiments 

 
 4.1 Original Datasets 

 
 We create contrast sets for 10 NLP datasets (full descriptions are provided in
Section  A ): 
 
 • 
 
 NLVR2   Suhr et al. (2019) 
 
 • 
 
 IMDb sentiment analysis   Maas et al. (2011) 
 
 • 
 
 MATRES Temporal RE   Ning et al. (2018) 
 
 • 
 
 English UD parsing   Nivre et al. (2016) 
 
 • 
 
 PERSPECTRUM   Chen et al. (2019) 
 
 • 
 
 DROP   Dua et al. (2019) 
 
 • 
 
 Quoref   Dasigi et al. (2019) 
 
 • 
 
 ROPES   Lin et al. (2019) 
 
 • 
 
 BoolQ   Clark et al. (2019) 
 
 • 
 
 MC-TACO   Zhou et al. (2019) 
 
 
 
 
 We choose these datasets because they span a variety of tasks (e.g., reading comprehension,
sentiment analysis, visual reasoning) and input-output formats (e.g., classification, span
extraction, structured prediction). We include high-level tasks for which dataset artifacts are
known to be prevalent, as well as longstanding formalism-based tasks, where data artifacts have been
less of an issue (or at least have been less well-studied). 
 
 
 
 4.2 Contrast Set Construction 

 
 The contrast sets were constructed by NLP researchers who were deeply familiar with the phenomena
underlying the annotated dataset; in most cases, these were the original
dataset authors. Our contrast sets consist of up to about 1,000 total examples and average 1–5
examples per contrast set (Table  2 ). We show representative examples from the
different contrast sets in Table  1 . For most datasets, the average time to
perturb each example was 1–3 minutes, which translates to approximately 17–50 hours of work to
create 1,000 examples. However, some datasets, particularly those with complex output structures,
took substantially longer: each example for dependency parsing took an average of 15 minutes (see
Appendix  B for more details). 
 
 
 
 4.3 Models Struggle on Contrast Sets 

 
 For each dataset, we use a model that is at or near state-of-the-art performance. Most models
involve fine-tuning a pretrained language model (e.g., ELMo  Peters et al. (2018) , BERT  Devlin et al. (2019) ,
 RoBERTa   Liu et al. (2019) , XLNet  Yang et al. (2019) , etc.) or applying a
task-specific architecture on top of one (e.g., Hu et al. (2019) add a DROP-specific model on top
of BERT). We train each model on the original training set and evaluate it on both the original test
set and our contrast sets. 
 
 
 Existing models struggle on the contrast sets (Table  2 ), particularly when
evaluating contrast consistency. Model performance degrades differently across datasets; however,
note that these numbers are not directly comparable due to differences in dataset size, model
architecture, contrast set design, etc. On IMDb and PERSPECTRUM, the model achieves a reasonably
high consistency, suggesting that, while there is definitely still room for improvement, the
phenomena targeted by those datasets are already relatively well captured by existing models. 
 
 
 Of particular note is the very low consistency score for dependency parsing. The parser that
we use achieves 95.7% unlabeled attachment score on the English Penn Treebank  ( Dozat and Manning, 2017 , trained with ELMo embeddings) .
A consistency score of 17.3 on a common attachment ambiguity suggests that this parser
may not be as strong as common evaluations lead us to believe. Overall, our results suggest that
models have “overfit” to artifacts that are present in existing datasets; they achieve high test
scores but do not completely capture a dataset’s intended phenomena. 
 
 
 
 4.4 Humans Succeed On Contrast Sets 

 
 An alternative explanation for why models fail on the contrast sets is that they are
simply harder or noisier than regular test sets, i.e., humans would also perform worse on the
contrast sets. We show that this is not the case. For four datasets, we choose at least 100
test instances and one corresponding contrast set instance (i.e., an example before and
after perturbation). We (the authors) test ourselves on these examples (ensuring that those who were tested were different from those who created the examples). Human performance is
comparable across the original test and contrasts set examples on these datasets
(Table  3 ). 
 
 
 
 
 4.5 Fine-Grained Analysis of Contrast Sets 

 
 Each example in the contrast sets can be labeled according to which particular phenomenon it
targets. This allows automated error reporting. For example, for the MATRES dataset we tracked
whether a perturbation changed appearance order, tense, or temporal conjunction words. These
fine-grained labels show that the model does comparatively better at modeling appearance order
(66.5% of perturbed examples correct) than temporal conjunction words (60.0% correct); see
Appendix  B.3 for full details. A similar analysis on DROP shows that MTMSN does
substantially worse on event re-ordering (47.3 F 1 ) than on adding compositional reasoning steps
(67.5 F 1 ). We recommend authors categorize their perturbations up front in order to
simplify future analyses and bypass some of the pitfalls of post-hoc error
categorization  Wu et al. (2019) . 
 
 
 Additionally, it’s worth discussing the dependency parsing result. The attachment decision that we
targeted was between a verb, a noun, and a preposition. With just two reasonable attachment
choices, a contrast consistency of 17.3 means that the model is almost always unable to change its
attachment based on the content of the prepositional phrase. Essentially, in a trigram such as
 demanded talks with (Table  1 ), the model has a bias for whether
 demanded or talks has a stronger affinity to with , and makes a prediction
accordingly. Given that trigrams are rare and annotating parse trees is expensive, it is not clear
that traditional evaluation metrics with i.i.d  test sets would ever find this problem. By
robustly characterizing local decision boundaries, contrast sets surface errors that are very
challenging to find with other means. 
 
 
 
 
 5 Related Work 

 
 The fundamental idea of finding or creating data that is “minimally different” has a very long history. In linguistics, for instance, the term minimal pair is used to denote two words with different meaning that differ by a single sound change, thus demonstrating that the sound change is phonemic in that language  Pike (1946) . Many people have used this idea in NLP (see below), creating challenge sets or providing training data that is “minimally different” in some sense, and we continue this tradition. Our main contribution to this line of work, in addition to the resources that we have created, is giving a simple and intuitive geometric interpretation of “bias” in dataset collection, and showing that this long-standing idea of minimal data changes can be effectively used to solve this problem on a wide variety of NLP tasks. We additionally generalize the idea of a minimal pair to a set , and use a consistency metric, which we contend more closely aligns with what NLP researchers mean by “language understanding”. 
 
 
 Training on Perturbed Examples 

 
 Many previous works have provided minimally contrastive examples on which to train models. Selsam et al. (2019) , Tafjord et al. (2019) , Lin et al. (2019) , and Khashabi et al. (2020) designed their data collection process to include contrastive examples. Data augmentation methods have also been used to mitigate gender  Zhao et al. (2018) , racial  Dixon et al. (2018) , and other biases  Kaushik et al. (2020) during training, or to introduce useful inductive biases  Andreas (2020) . 
 
 
 
 Challenge Sets 

 
 The idea of creating challenging contrastive evaluation sets has a long history  Levesque et al. (2011) ; Ettinger et al. (2017) ; Glockner et al. (2018) ; Naik et al. (2018) ; Isabelle et al. (2017) . Challenge sets exist for
various phenomena, including ones with “minimal” edits similar to our contrast sets, e.g., in
image captioning  Shekhar et al. (2017) , machine translation  Sennrich (2017) ; Burlot and Yvon (2017) ; Burlot et al. (2018) , and
language modeling  Marvin and Linzen (2018) ; Warstadt et al. (2019) . Minimal pairs of edits that perturb
gender or racial attributes are also useful for evaluating social
biases  Rudinger et al. (2018) ; Zhao et al. (2018) ; Lu et al. (2018) . Our key contribution over this prior
work is in grouping perturbed instances into a contrast set, for measuring local alignment of decision
boundaries, along with our new, related resources. Additionally, rather than creating new data from
scratch, contrast sets augment existing test examples to fill in systematic gaps. Thus contrast sets often require less effort to create, and they remain grounded in the original data distribution of some training set. 
 
 
 Since the initial publication of this paper, Shmidman et al. () have further demonstrated the utility of contrast sets by applying these ideas to the evaluation of morphological disambiguation in Hebrew. 
 
 
 
 Recollecting Test Sets 

 
 Recht et al. (2019) create new test sets for CIFAR and
ImageNet by closely following the procedure used by the original datasets authors;
 Yadav and Bottou (2019) perform similar for MNIST. This line of work looks to evaluate whether
 reusing the exact same test set in numerous research papers causes the community to
adaptively “overfit” its techniques to that test set. Our goal with contrast sets is
different—we look to eliminate the biases in the original annotation process to better
evaluate models. This cannot be accomplished by simply collecting more data because the new data
will capture similar biases. 
 
 
 
 
 6 Conclusion 

 
 We presented a new annotation paradigm, based on long-standing ideas around contrastive examples, for constructing more rigorous test sets for NLP. Our
procedure maintains most of the established processes for dataset creation but fills in some of the
systematic gaps that are typically present in datasets. By shifting evaluations from accuracy on
 i.i.d.  test sets to consistency on contrast sets, we can better examine whether models have
learned the desired capabilities or simply captured the idiosyncrasies of a dataset. We created
contrast sets for 10 NLP datasets and released this data as new evaluation benchmarks. 
 
 
 We recommend that future data collection efforts create contrast sets to provide more comprehensive
evaluations for both existing and new NLP datasets. While we have created thousands of new test
examples across a wide variety of datasets, we have only taken small steps towards the rigorous
evaluations we would like to see in NLP. The last several years have given us dramatic modeling
advancements; our evaluation methodologies and datasets need to see similar improvements. 
 
 
 
 Acknowledgements 

 
 We thank the anonymous reviewers for their helpful feedback on this paper, as well as many others who gave constructive comments on a publicly-available preprint. Various authors of this paper were supported in part by ERC grant 677352, NSF grant 1562364, NSF grant IIS-1756023, NSF CAREER 1750499, ONR grant N00014-18-1-2826 and DARPA grant N66001-19-2-403. 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 Ahrenberg (2007) 
 
Lars Ahrenberg. 2007.

 
 LinES: an English-Swedish parallel treebank.

 
 In NODALIDA .

 
 
 Andreas (2020) 
 
Jacob Andreas. 2020.

 
 Good-enough compositional data augmentation .

 
 In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics , pages 7556–7566, Online. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Ben-David et al. (2010) 
 
Shai Ben-David, John Blitzer, Koby Crammer, Alex Kulesza, Fernando Pereira, and
Jennifer Wortman Vaughan. 2010.

 
 A theory of learning from different domains.

 
 Machine Learning .

 
 
 Bowman et al. (2015) 
 
Samuel R Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D Manning.
2015.

 
 A large annotated corpus for learning natural language inference.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Burlot et al. (2018) 
 
Franck Burlot, Yves Scherrer, Vinit Ravishankar, Ondřej Bojar, Stig-Arne
Grönroos, Maarit Koponen, Tommi Nieminen, and François Yvon. 2018.

 
 The WMT’18
morpheval test suites for English-Czech, English-German,
English-Finnish and Turkish-English .

 
 In Proceedings of the Third Conference on Machine Translation:
Shared Task Papers , Belgium, Brussels. Association for Computational
Linguistics.

 
 
 Burlot and Yvon (2017) 
 
Franck Burlot and François Yvon. 2017.

 
 Evaluating the
morphological competence of machine translation systems .

 
 In Proceedings of the Second Conference on Machine
Translation , pages 43–55, Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Chen et al. (2016) 
 
Danqi Chen, Jason Bolton, and Christopher D. Manning. 2016.

 
 A thorough examination of the CNN/Daily Mail reading comprehension
task.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Chen et al. (2019) 
 
Sihao Chen, Daniel Khashabi, Wenpeng Yin, Chris Callison-Burch, and Dan Roth.
2019.

 
 Seeing things from a different angle: Discovering diverse
perspectives about claims.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Clark et al. (2019) 
 
Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, Ming-Wei Chang, Tom Kwiatkowski, Michael
Collins, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019.

 
 BoolQ: Exploring the surprising difficulty of natural Yes/No
questions.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Collins and Brooks (1995) 
 
Michael Collins and James Brooks. 1995.

 
 Prepositional phrase attachment through a backed-off model.

 
 In Third Workshop on Very Large Corpora .

 
 
 Dasigi et al. (2019) 
 
Pradeep Dasigi, Nelson F Liu, Ana Marasovic, Noah A Smith, and Matt Gardner.
2019.

 
 Quoref: A reading comprehension dataset with questions requiring
coreferential reasoning.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Devlin et al. (2019) 
 
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019.

 
 BERT: pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language
understanding.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Dixon et al. (2018) 
 
Lucas Dixon, John Li, Jeffrey Sorensen, Nithum Thain, and Lucy Vasserman. 2018.

 
 Measuring and mitigating unintended bias in text classification.

 
 In ACM AIES .

 
 
 Dozat and Manning (2017) 
 
Timothy Dozat and Christopher D Manning. 2017.

 
 Deep biaffine attention for neural dependency parsing.

 
 In ICLR .

 
 
 Dua et al. (2019) 
 
Dheeru Dua, Yizhong Wang, Pradeep Dasigi, Gabriel Stanovsky, Sameer Singh, and
Matt Gardner. 2019.

 
 DROP: A reading comprehension benchmark requiring discrete
reasoning over paragraphs.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Ettinger et al. (2017) 
 
Allyson Ettinger, Sudha Rao, Hal Daumé III, and Emily M. Bender. 2017.

 
 Towards
linguistically generalizable NLP systems: A workshop and shared task .

 
 In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Building Linguistically
Generalizable NLP Systems , Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Feng et al. (2019) 
 
Shi Feng, Eric Wallace, and Jordan Boyd-Graber. 2019.

 
 Misleading failures of partial-input baselines.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Feng et al. (2018) 
 
Shi Feng, Eric Wallace, Alvin Grissom II, Mohit Iyyer, Pedro Rodriguez, and
Jordan Boyd-Graber. 2018.

 
 Pathologies of neural models make interpretations difficult.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Geva et al. (2019) 
 
Mor Geva, Yoav Goldberg, and Jonathan Berant. 2019.

 
 Are we modeling the task or the annotator? An investigation of
annotator bias in natural language understanding datasets.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Glockner et al. (2018) 
 
Max Glockner, Vered Shwartz, and Yoav Goldberg. 2018.

 
 Breaking NLI systems with sentences that require simple lexical
inferences.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Gururangan et al. (2018) 
 
Suchin Gururangan, Swabha Swayamdipta, Omer Levy, Roy Schwartz, Samuel
R. Bowman, and Noah A. Smith. 2018.

 
 Annotation artifacts in natural language inference data.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Hu et al. (2019) 
 
Minghao Hu, Yuxing Peng, Zhen Huang, and Dongsheng Li. 2019.

 
 A multi-type multi-span network for reading comprehension that
requires discrete reasoning.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Isabelle et al. (2017) 
 
Pierre Isabelle, Colin Cherry, and George Foster. 2017.

 
 A challenge set approach to evaluating machine translation.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Jia and Liang (2017) 
 
Robin Jia and Percy Liang. 2017.

 
 Adversarial examples for evaluating reading comprehension systems.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Jia et al. (2019) 
 
Robin Jia, Aditi Raghunathan, Kerem Göksel, and Percy Liang. 2019.

 
 Certified robustness to
adversarial word substitutions .

 
 In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) , Hong Kong, China. Association
for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Kaushik et al. (2020) 
 
Divyansh Kaushik, Eduard Hovy, and Zachary C Lipton. 2020.

 
 Learning the difference that makes a difference with
counterfactually-augmented data.

 
 In ICLR .

 
 
 Khashabi et al. (2020) 
 
Daniel Khashabi, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabhwawal. 2020.

 
 More bang for your buck: Natural perturbation for robust question
answering.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Lai et al. (2017) 
 
Guokun Lai, Qizhe Xie, Hanxiao Liu, Yiming Yang, and Eduard Hovy. 2017.

 
 RACE: Large-scale reading comprehension dataset from examinations.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Levesque et al. (2011) 
 
Hector J. Levesque, Ernest Davis, and Leora Morgenstern. 2011.

 
 The winograd schema challenge.

 
 In KR .

 
 
 Lin et al. (2019) 
 
Kevin Lin, Oyvind Tafjord, Peter Clark, and Matt Gardner. 2019.

 
 Reasoning over paragraph effects in situations.

 
 In EMNLP MRQA Workshop .

 
 
 Lipton et al. (2018) 
 
Zachary Lipton, Yu-Xiang Wang, and Alexander Smola. 2018.

 
 Detecting and correcting for label shift with black box predictors.

 
 In ICML .

 
 
 Liu et al. (2019) 
 
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer
Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019.

 
 RoBERTa: A robustly optimized BERT pretraining approach.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692 .

 
 
 Lu et al. (2018) 
 
Kaiji Lu, Piotr Mardziel, Fangjing Wu, Preetam Amancharla, and Anupam Datta.
2018.

 
 Gender bias in neural natural language processing.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.11714 .

 
 
 Maas et al. (2011) 
 
Andrew L. Maas, Raymond E. Daly, Peter T. Pham, Dan Huang, Andrew Y. Ng, and
Christopher Potts. 2011.

 
 Learning word vectors for sentiment analysis.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Marcus et al. (1993) 
 
Mitchell Marcus, Beatrice Santorini, and Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz. 1993.

 
 Building a large annotated corpus of english: The Penn treebank.

 
 In Computational Linguistics .

 
 
 Marvin and Linzen (2018) 
 
Rebecca Marvin and Tal Linzen. 2018.

 
 Targeted syntactic evaluation of language models.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Michel et al. (2019) 
 
Paul Michel, Xian Li, Graham Neubig, and Juan Miguel Pino. 2019.

 
 On evaluation of adversarial perturbations for sequence-to-sequence
models.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Min et al. (2019) 
 
Sewon Min, Eric Wallace, Sameer Singh, Matt Gardner, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and
Luke Zettlemoyer. 2019.

 
 Compositional questions do not necessitate multi-hop reasoning.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Naik et al. (2018) 
 
Aakanksha Naik, Abhilasha Ravichander, Norman Sadeh, Carolyn Rose, and Graham
Neubig. 2018.

 
 Stress test evaluation for natural language inference.

 
 In COLING .

 
 
 Nie et al. (2019) 
 
Yixin Nie, Adina Williams, Emily Dinan, Mohit Bansal, Jason Weston, and Douwe
Kiela. 2019.

 
 Adversarial NLI: A new benchmark for natural language
understanding.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.14599 .

 
 
 Ning et al. (2019) 
 
Qiang Ning, Sanjay Subramanian, and Dan Roth. 2019.

 
 An Improved Neural Baseline for Temporal Relation Extraction.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Ning et al. (2018) 
 
Qiang Ning, Hao Wu, and Dan Roth. 2018.

 
 A Multi-Axis Annotation Scheme for Event Temporal Relations.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Niven and Kao (2019) 
 
Timothy Niven and Hung-Yu Kao. 2019.

 
 Probing neural network
comprehension of natural language arguments .

 
 In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics , Florence, Italy. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Nivre et al. (2016) 
 
Joakim Nivre, Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Filip Ginter, Yoav Goldberg, Jan
Hajič, Christopher D. Manning, Ryan McDonald, Slav Petrov, Sampo
Pyysalo, Natalia Silveira, Reut Tsarfaty, and Daniel Zeman. 2016.

 
 Universal dependencies v1: A multilingual treebank collection.

 
 In LREC .

 
 
 Peters et al. (2018) 
 
Matthew E. Peters, Mark Neumann, Mohit Iyyer, Matt Gardner, Christopher Clark,
Kenton Lee, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2018.

 
 Deep contextualized word representations.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Pike (1946) 
 
K.L. Pike. 1946.

 
 Phonemics: A Technique for Reducing Languages to Writing .

 
 Number v. 2 in Phonemics: A Technique for Reducing Languages to
Writing. Summer Institute of Linguistics.

 
 
 Poliak et al. (2018) 
 
Adam Poliak, Jason Naradowsky, Aparajita Haldar, Rachel Rudinger, and
Benjamin Van Durme. 2018.

 
 Hypothesis only baselines in natural language inference.

 
 In *SEM .

 
 
 Recht et al. (2019) 
 
Benjamin Recht, Rebecca Roelofs, Ludwig Schmidt, and Vaishaal Shankar. 2019.

 
 Do ImageNet classifiers generalize to ImageNet?

 
 In ICML .

 
 
 Ribeiro et al. (2019) 
 
Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Carlos Guestrin, and Sameer Singh. 2019.

 
 Are red roses red? Evaluating consistency of question-answering
models.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Ribeiro et al. (2018a) 
 
Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Sameer Singh, and Carlos Guestrin. 2018a.

 
 Semantically equivalent
adversarial rules for debugging NLP models .

 
 In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 856–865,
Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Ribeiro et al. (2018b) 
 
Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Sameer Singh, and Carlos Guestrin. 2018b.

 
 Semantically equivalent adversarial rules for debugging NLP models.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Rudinger et al. (2018) 
 
Rachel Rudinger, Jason Naradowsky, Brian Leonard, and Benjamin Van Durme. 2018.

 
 Gender bias in coreference resolution.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Sanguinetti and Bosco (2015) 
 
Manuela Sanguinetti and Cristina Bosco. 2015.

 
 PartTUT: The Turin university parallel treebank.

 
 In Harmonization and Development of Resources and Tools for
Italian Natural Language Processing within the PARLI Project .

 
 
 Selsam et al. (2019) 
 
Daniel Selsam, Matthew Lamm, Benedikt Bünz, Percy Liang, Leonardo de Moura,
and David L. Dill. 2019.

 
 Learning a SAT
solver from single-bit supervision .

 
 In International Conference on Learning Representations .

 
 
 Sennrich (2017) 
 
Rico Sennrich. 2017.

 
 How grammatical is character-level neural machine translation?
Assessing MT quality with contrastive translation pairs.

 
 In EACL .

 
 
 Shah et al. (2020) 
 
Deven Shah, H. Andrew Schwartz, and Dirk Hovy. 2020.

 
 Predictive biases in natural language processing models: A conceptual
framework and overview.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Shekhar et al. (2017) 
 
Ravi Shekhar, Sandro Pezzelle, Yauhen Klimovich, Aurélie Herbelot, Moin
Nabi, Enver Sangineto, and Raffaella Bernardi. 2017.

 
 Foil it! Find One mismatch between image and language caption.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Shimodaira (2000) 
 
Hidetoshi Shimodaira. 2000.

 
 Improving predictive inference under covariate shift by weighting the
log-likelihood function.

 
 In Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference .

 
 
 (59) 
 
Avi Shmidman, Joshua Guedalia, Shaltiel Shmidman, Moshe Koppel, and Reut
Tsarfaty.

 
 A novel challenge set for hebrew morphological disambiguation and
diacritics restoration.

 
 In Findings of EMNLP .

 
 
 Silveira et al. (2014) 
 
Natalia Silveira, Timothy Dozat, Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Samuel Bowman,
Miriam Connor, John Bauer, and Chris Manning. 2014.

 
 A gold standard dependency corpus for English.

 
 In LREC .

 
 
 Suhr and Artzi (2019) 
 
Alane Suhr and Yoav Artzi. 2019.

 
 NLVR2 visual bias analysis.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.10411 .

 
 
 Suhr et al. (2019) 
 
Alane Suhr, Stephanie Zhou, Ally Zhang, Iris Zhang, Huajun Bai, and Yoav Artzi.
2019.

 
 A corpus for reasoning about natural language grounded in
photographs.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Szegedy et al. (2014) 
 
Christian Szegedy, Wojciech Zaremba, Ilya Sutskever, Joan Bruna, Dumitru Erhan,
Ian J. Goodfellow, and Rob Fergus. 2014.

 
 Intriguing properties of neural networks.

 
 In ICLR .

 
 
 Tafjord et al. (2019) 
 
Oyvind Tafjord, Matt Gardner, Kevin Lin, and Peter Clark. 2019.

 
 QuaRTz: An
open-domain dataset of qualitative relationship questions .

 
 In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) , pages 5941–5946, Hong Kong,
China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Tan and Bansal (2019) 
 
Hao Tan and Mohit Bansal. 2019.

 
 LXMERT: Learning cross-modality encoder representations from
transformers.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 UzZaman et al. (2013) 
 
Naushad UzZaman, Hector Llorens, Leon Derczynski, James Allen, Marc Verhagen,
and James Pustejovsky. 2013.

 
 SemEval-2013 Task 1: TempEval-3: Evaluating time
expressions, events, and temporal relations.

 
 In *SEM .

 
 
 Wallace et al. (2019a) 
 
Eric Wallace, Shi Feng, Nikhil Kandpal, Matt Gardner, and Sameer Singh.
2019a.

 
 Universal adversarial triggers for attacking and analyzing NLP.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Wallace et al. (2019b) 
 
Eric Wallace, Pedro Rodriguez, Shi Feng, Ikuya Yamada, and Jordan Boyd-Graber.
2019b.

 
 Trick me if you can: Human-in-the-loop generation of adversarial
question answering examples.

 
 In TACL .

 
 
 Warstadt et al. (2019) 
 
Alex Warstadt, Alicia Parrish, Haokun Liu, Anhad Mohananey, Wei Peng, Sheng-Fu
Wang, and Samuel R. Bowman. 2019.

 
 BLiMP: A benchmark of linguistic minimal pairs for english.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.00582 .

 
 
 Wu et al. (2019) 
 
Tongshuang Wu, Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Jeffrey Heer, and Daniel Weld. 2019.

 
 Errudite: Scalable, reproducible, and testable error analysis.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Yadav and Bottou (2019) 
 
Chhavi Yadav and Léon Bottou. 2019.

 
 Cold case: The lost MNIST digits.

 
 In NeurIPS .

 
 
 Yang et al. (2019) 
 
Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime Carbonell, Ruslan Salakhutdinov,
and Quoc V Le. 2019.

 
 XLNet: Generalized autoregressive pretraining for language
understanding.

 
 In NeurIPS .

 
 
 Zeldes (2017) 
 
Amir Zeldes. 2017.

 
 The GUM corpus: Creating multilayer resources in the classroom.

 
 In LREC .

 
 
 Zellers et al. (2018) 
 
Rowan Zellers, Yonatan Bisk, Roy Schwartz, and Yejin Choi. 2018.

 
 SWAG: A large-scale adversarial dataset for grounded commonsense
inference.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Zellers et al. (2019) 
 
Rowan Zellers, Ari Holtzman, Yonatan Bisk, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi. 2019.

 
 HellaSwag: Can a machine really finish your sentence?

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Zhao et al. (2018) 
 
Jieyu Zhao, Tianlu Wang, Mark Yatskar, Vicente Ordonez, and Kai-Wei Chang.
2018.

 
 Gender bias in coreference resolution: Evaluation and debiasing
methods.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Zhou et al. (2019) 
 
Ben Zhou, Daniel Khashabi, Qiang Ning, and Dan Roth. 2019.

 
 “Going on a vacation” takes longer than “going for a walk”: A
study of temporal commonsense understanding.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A Dataset Details 

 
 Here, we provide details for the datasets that we build contrast sets for. 
 
 
 Natural Language Visual Reasoning 2 

 
 (NLVR ) Given a natural language sentence about
two photographs, the task is to determine if the sentence is true  Suhr et al. (2019) . The
dataset has highly compositional language, e.g., The left image contains twice the number of
dogs as the right image, and at least two dogs in total are standing . To succeed at NLVR2, a model
is supposed to be able to detect and count objects, recognize spatial relationships, and understand
the natural language that describes these phenomena. 
 
 
 
 Internet Movie Database 

 
 (IMDb) The task is to predict the sentiment (positive or
negative) of a movie review  Maas et al. (2011) . We use the same set of reviews from
 Kaushik et al. (2020) in order to analyze the differences between crowd-edited reviews and
expert-edited reviews. 
 
 
 
 Temporal relation extraction 

 
 (MATRES) The task is to determine what temporal
relationship exists between two events, i.e., whether some event happened before or
 after another event  Ning et al. (2018) . MATRES has events and temporal relations labeled
for approximately 300 news articles. The event annotations are taken from the data provided in the
TempEval3 workshop  UzZaman et al. (2013) and the temporal relations are re-annotated
based on a multi-axis formalism. We assume that the events are given and only need to classify the
relation label between them. 
 
 
 
 English UD Parsing 

 
 We use a combination of four English treebanks (GUM, EWT, LinES,
ParTUT) in the Universal Dependencies parsing framework, covering a range of genres. We focus on
the problem of prepositional phrase attachment: whether the head of a prepositional phrase attaches
to a verb or to some other dependent of the verb. We manually selected a small set of sentences from
these treebanks that had potentially ambiguous attachments. 
 
 
 
 Reasoning about perspectives 

 
 (PERSPECTRUM) Given a debate-worthy natural language claim,
the task is to identify the set of relevant argumentative sentences that represent perspectives
for/against the claim  Chen et al. (2019) . We focus on the stance prediction sub-task: a binary
prediction of whether a relevant perspective is for/against the given claim. 
 
 
 
 Discrete Reasoning Over Paragraphs 

 
 (DROP) A reading comprehension dataset that requires
numerical reasoning, e.g., adding, sorting, and counting numbers in paragraphs  Dua et al. (2019) .
In order to compute the consistency metric for the span answers of DROP, we report the average
number of contrast sets in which for all instances is above . 
 
 
 
 Quoref 

 
 A reading comprehension task with span selection questions that require
coreference resolution  Dasigi et al. (2019) . In this dataset, most questions can be localized to
a single event in the passage, and reference an argument in that event that is typically a pronoun
or other anaphoric reference. Correctly answering the question requires resolving the pronoun. We
use the same definition for consistency for Quoref as we did for DROP . 
 
 
 
 Reasoning Over Paragraph Effects in Situations 

 
 (ROPES) A reading comprehension dataset
that requires applying knowledge from a background passage to new
situations  Lin et al. (2019) . This task has background paragraphs drawn mostly from science
texts that describe causes and effects (e.g., that brightly colored flowers attract insects), and
situations written by crowd workers that instantiate either the cause (e.g., bright colors) or the
effect (e.g., attracting insects). Questions are written that query the application of the
statements in the background paragraphs to the instantiated situation. Correctly answering the
questions is intended to require understanding how free-form causal language can be understood and
applied. We use the same consistency metric for ROPES as we did for DROP and Quoref . 
 
 
 
 BoolQ 

 
 A dataset of reading comprehension instances with Boolean (yes or no)
answers  Clark et al. (2019) . These questions were obtained from organic Google search queries and
paired with paragraphs from Wikipedia pages that are labeled as sufficient to deduce the answer. As
the questions are drawn from a distribution of what people search for on the internet, there is no
clear set of “intended phenomena” in this data; it is an eclectic mix of different kinds of
questions. 
 
 
 
 MC-TACO 

 
 A dataset of reading comprehension questions about multiple temporal
common-sense phenomena  Zhou et al. (2019) . Given a short paragraph (often a single sentence), a
question, and a collection of candidate answers, the task is to determine which of the candidate
answers are plausible. For example, the paragraph might describe a storm and the question might ask
how long the storm lasted, with candidate answers ranging from seconds to weeks. This dataset is
intended to test a system’s knowledge of typical event durations, orderings, and frequency. As the
paragraph does not contain the information necessary to answer the question, this dataset is largely
a test of background (common sense) knowledge. 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix B Contrast Set Details 

 
 B.1 NLVR2 

 
 Text Perturbation Strategies 

 
 We use the following text perturbation strategies for NLVR2: 
 
 • 
 
 Perturbing quantifiers, e.g., There is at least one dog There is exactly
one dog . 
 
 • 
 
 Perturbing numbers, e.g., There is at least one dog There are at least
two dogs . 
 
 • 
 
 Perturbing entities, e.g., There is at least one dog There is at least
one cat . 
 
 • 
 
 Perturbing properties of entities, e.g., There is at least one yellow dog 
 There is at least one green dog . 
 
 
 
 
 
 Image Perturbation Strategies 

 
 For image perturbations, the annotators collected images
that are perceptually and/or conceptually close to the hypothesized decision boundary, i.e., they
represent a minimal change in some concrete aspect of the image. For example, for an image pair with
2 dogs on the left and 1 dog on the right and the sentence There are more dogs on the left than
the right , a reasonable image change would be to replace the right-hand image with an image of
two dogs. 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use LXMERT  Tan and Bansal (2019) trained on the NLVR2 training dataset. 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 Five annotators created 983 perturbed instances that form 479
contrast sets. Annotation took approximately thirty seconds per textual perturbation and two minutes
per image perturbation. 
 
 
 
 
 B.2 IMDb 

 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 We minimally perturb reviews to flip the label while ensuring that the review remains coherent and
factually consistent. Here, we provide example revisions: 
 
 
 Original (Negative): I had quite high hopes for this film, even though it got a bad review in the paper. I was extremely tolerant , and sat through the entire film. I felt quite sick by the end. 
 New (Positive): I had quite high hopes for this film, even though it got a bad review in the paper. I was extremely amused , and sat through the entire film. I felt quite happy by the end. 
 Original (Positive): This is the greatest film I saw in 2002, whereas I’m used to mainstream movies. It is rich and makes a beautiful artistic act from these 11 short films. From the technical info (the chosen directors), I feared it would have an anti-American basis, but … it’s a kind of (11 times) personal tribute . The weakest point comes from Y. Chahine : he does not manage to “swallow his pride” and considers this event as a well-merited punishment … It is really the weakest part of the movie, but this testifies of a real freedom of speech for the whole piece. 
 New (Negative): This is the most horrendous film I saw in 2002, whereas I’m used to mainstream movies. It is low budgeted and makes a less than beautiful artistic act from these 11 short films. From the technical info (the chosen directors), I feared it would have an anti-American basis, but … it’s a kind of (11 times) the same . One of the weakest point comes from Y. Chahine : he does not manage to “swallow his pride” and considers this event as a well-merited punishment … It is not the weakest part of the movie, but this testifies of a real freedom of speech for the whole piece. 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use the same BERT model setup and training data as Kaushik et al. (2020) 
which allows us to fairly compare the crowd and expert revisions. 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 We use 100 reviews from the validation set and 488 from the test
set of Kaushik et al. (2020) . Three annotators used approximately 70 hours to construct and
validate the dataset. 
 
 
 
 
 B.3 MATRES 

 
 MATRES has three sections: TimeBank, AQUAINT, and Platinum, with the Platinum section serving as the
test set. We use 239 instances (30% of the dataset) from Platinum. 
 
 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 The annotators perturb one or more of the following aspects:
appearance order in text, tense of verb(s), and temporal conjunction words. Below are example
revisions: 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Colonel Collins followed a normal progression once she was picked as a
NASA astronaut. (original sentence: “followed” is after “picked”) 
 
 • 
 
 Once Colonel Collins was picked as a NASA astronaut, she followed a
normal progression. (appearance order change in text; “followed” is still after “picked”) 
 
 • 
 
 Colonel Collins followed a normal progression before she was picked as a
NASA astronaut. (changed the temporal conjunction word from “once” to “before” and
“followed” is now before “picked”) 
 
 • 
 
 Volleyball is a popular sport in the area, and more than 200 people were watching 
the game, the chief said . (original sentence: “watching” is before “said”) 
 
 • 
 
 Volleyball is a popular sport in the area, and more than 200 people would be
 watching the game, the chief said . (changed the verb tense: “watching” is
after “said”) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use CogCompTime 2.0  Ning et al. (2019) . 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 Two annotators created 401 perturbed instances that form 239
contrast sets. The annotators used approximately 25 hours to construct and validate the dataset. 
 
 
 
 Analysis 

 
 We recorded the perturbation strategy used for each example. 49% of the
perturbations changed the “appearance order”, 31% changed the “tense”, 24% changed the
“temporal conjunction words”, and 10% had other changes. We double count the examples that have
multiple perturbations. The model accuracy on the different perturbations is reported in the table
below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 B.4 Syntactic Parsing 

 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 The annotators perturbed noun phrases adjacent to prepositions
(leaving the preposition unchanged). For example, The clerics demanded talks with local US
commanders The clerics demanded talks with great urgency . The different semantic
content of the noun phrase changes the syntactic path from the preposition with to the
parent word of the parent of the preposition; in the initial example, the parent is
 commanders and the grandparent is the noun talks ; in the perturbed version, the
grandparent is now the verb demanded . 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use a biaffine parser following the architecture of Dozat and Manning (2017) with ELMo embeddings  Peters et al. (2018) ,
trained on the combination of the training sets for the treebanks that we drew test examples from
(GUM, EWT, LinES, and ParTUT). 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 One annotator created 150 perturbed examples that form 150
contrast sets. 75 of the contrast sets consist of a sentence in which a prepositional phrase
attaches to a verb, paired with an altered version where it attaches to a noun instead. The other 75
sentences were altered in the opposite direction. 
 
 
 
 Analysis 

 
 The process of creating a perturbation for a syntactic parse is highly
time-consuming. Only a small fraction of sentences in the test set could be altered in the desired
way, even after filtering to find relevant syntactic structures and eliminate unambiguous
prepositions (e.g. of always attaches to a noun modifying a noun, making it impossible to
change the attachment without changing the preposition). Further, once a potentially ambiguous
sentence was identified, annotators had to come up with an alternative noun phrase that sounded
natural and did not require extensive changes to the structure of the sentence. They then had to
re-annotate the relevant section of the sentence, which could include new POS tags, new UD word
features, and new arc labels. On average, each perturbation took 10–15 minutes. Expanding the scope
of this augmented dataset to cover other syntactic features, such as adjective scope, apposition
versus conjunction, and other forms of clausal attachment, would allow for a significantly larger
dataset but would require a large amount of annotator time. The very poor contrast consistency on
our dataset (17.3%) suggests that this would be a worthwhile investment to create a more rigorous
parsing evaluation. 
 
 
 Notably, the model’s accuracy for predicting the target prepositions’ grandparents in the original,
unaltered tree (64.7%) is significantly lower than the model’s accuracy for grandparents of all
words (78.41%) and for grandparents of all prepositions (78.95%) in the original data. This
indicates that these structures are already difficult for the parser due to structural ambiguity. 
 
 
 
 
 B.5 PERSPECTRUM 

 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 The annotators perturbed examples in multiple steps. First, they
created non-trivial negations of the claim, e.g., Should we live in space? Should we
drop the ambition to live in space? . Next, they labeled the perturbed claim with respect to each
perspective. For example: 
 
 
 
 Claim: Should we live in space? 
 Perspective: Humanity in many ways defines itself through exploration and space is the next logical frontier. 
 Label: True 
   
 Claim: Should we drop the ambition to live in space? 
 Perspective: Humanity in many ways defines itself through exploration and space is the next logical frontier. 
 Label: False 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use a RoBERTa model  Liu et al. (2019) finetuned on PERSPECTRUM
following the training process from Chen et al. (2019) . 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 The annotators created 217 perturbed instances that form 217
contrast sets. Each example took approximately three minutes to annotate: one minute for an
annotator to negate each claim and one minute each for two separate annotators to adjudicate stance
labels for each contrastive claim-perspective pair. 
 
 
 
 
 B.6 DROP 

 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 See Section  3 in the main text for details
about our perturbation strategies. 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use MTMSN  Hu et al. (2019) , a DROP question answering model that is built on
top of BERT Large  Devlin et al. (2019) . 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 The total size of the augmented test set is 947 examples and
contains a total of 623 contrast sets. Three annotators used approximately 16 hours to construct
and validate the dataset. 
 
 
 
 Analysis 

 
 We bucket of the perturbed instances into the three categories of
perturbations described in Section  3 . For each subset, we evaluate MTMSN’s
performance and show the results in the Table below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 B.7 Quoref 

 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 We use the following perturbation strategies for Quoref : 
 
 • 
 
 Perturb questions whose answers are entities to instead make the answers a property of
those entities, e.g., Who hides their identity … What is the nationality
of the person who hides their identity … . 
 
 • 
 
 Perturb questions to add compositionality, e.g., What is the name of the person … 
 What is the name of the father of the person … . 
 
 • 
 
 Add sentences between referring expressions and antecedents to the context paragraphs. 
 
 • 
 
 Replace antecedents with less frequent named entities of the same type in the context
paragraphs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use XLNet-QA, the best model from Dasigi et al. (2019) , which is a span
extraction model built on top of XLNet  Yang et al. (2019) . 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 Four annotators created 700 instances that form 415 contrast
sets. The mean contrast set size (including the original example) is . The annotators
used approximately 35 hours to construct and validate the dataset. 
 
 
 
 
 B.8 ROPES 

 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 We use the following perturbation strategies for ROPES : 
 
 • 
 
 Perturbing the background to have the opposite causes and effects or qualitative relation,
e.g., Gibberellins are hormones that cause the plant to grow Gibberellins
are hormones that cause the plant to stop growing. 
 
 • 
 
 Perturbing the situation to associate different entities with different instantiations of
a certain cause or effect. For example, Grey tree frogs live in wooded areas and are
difficult to see when on tree trunks. Green tree frogs live in wetlands with lots of grass and
tall plants. Grey tree frogs live in wetlands areas and are difficult to see when
on stormy days in the plants. Green tree frogs live in wetlands with lots of leaves to hide
on. 
 
 • 
 
 Perturbing the situation to have more complex reasoning steps, e.g., Sue put 2 cubes
of sugar into her tea. Ann decided to use granulated sugar and added the same amount of sugar
to her tea. Sue has 2 cubes of sugar but Ann has the same amount of granulated
sugar. They exchange the sugar to each other and put the sugar to their ice tea. 
 
 • 
 
 Perturbing the questions to have presuppositions that match the situation and background. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use the best model from Lin et al. (2019) , which is a span extraction
model built on top of a RoBERTa model  Liu et al. (2019) that is first finetuned on
RACE  Lai et al. (2017) . 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 Two annotators created 974 perturbed instances which form 974
contrast sets. The annotators used approximately 65 hours to construct and validate the dataset. 
 
 
 
 
 B.9 BoolQ 

 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 We use a diverse set of perturbations, including adjective,
entity, and event changes. We show three representative examples below: 
 
 
 
 Paragraph: The Fate of the Furious premiered in Berlin on April 4, 2017, and was theatrically released in the United States on April 14, 2017, playing in 3D, IMAX 3D and 4DX internationally…A spinoff film starring Johnson and Statham’s characters is scheduled for release in August 2019, while the ninth and tenth films are scheduled for releases on the years 2020 and 2021. 
 Question: Is “Fate and the Furious” the last movie ? 
 Answer: False 
 New Question: Is “Fate and the Furious” the first of multiple movies ? 
 New Answer: True 
 Perturbation Strategy: Adjective Change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Paragraph: Sanders played football primarily at cornerback, but also as a kick returner, punt returner, and occasionally wide receiver…An outfielder in baseball, he played professionally for the New York Yankees, the Atlanta Braves, the Cincinnati Reds and the San Francisco Giants, and participated in the 1992 World Series with the Braves.
 Question: Did Deion Sanders ever win a world series? 
 Answer: False 
 New Question: Did Deion Sanders ever play in a world series? 
 New Answer: True 
 Perturbation strategy: Event Change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Paragraph: The White House is the official residence and workplace of the President of the United States. It is located at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C. and has been the residence of every U.S. President since John Adams in 1800. The term is often used as a metonym for the president and his advisers. 
 Question: Does the president live in the White House? 
 Answer: True 
 New Question: Did George Washington live in the White House? 
 New Answer: False 
 Perturbation Strategy: Entity Change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use RoBERTa base and follow the standard finetuning process
from  Liu et al. (2019) . 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 The annotators created 339 perturbed questions generated that
form 70 contrast sets. One annotator created the dataset and a separate annotator verified it. This
entire process took approximately 16 hours. 
 
 
 
 
 B.10 MC-TACO 

 
 Perturbation Strategies 

 
 The main goal when perturbing MC-TACO questions is to retain a
similar question that requires the same temporal knowledge to answer, while there are additional
constraints with slightly different related context that changes the answers. We also modified the
answers accordingly to make sure the question has a combination of plausible and implausible
candidates. 
 
 
 
 Model 

 
 We use the best baseline model from the original paper  Zhou et al. (2019) which
is based on Liu et al. (2019) . 
 
 
 
 Contrast Set Statistics 

 
 The annotators created 646 perturbed question-answer pairs that
form 646 contrast sets. Two annotators used approximately 12 hours to construct and validate the
dataset. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
