 
 
 
 Descending through a Crowded Valley —Benchmarking Deep Learning Optimizers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 
 1. Assessing the progress in deep learning optimization. 
 2. Insights from more than , optimization runs. 
 3. An open-source baseline for future optimizer benchmarks and meta-learning approaches. 
 1.1 Related work 
 
 2 Benchmarking process 
 
 2.1 Problems 
 2.2 Optimizer 
 2.3 Tuning 
 
 Budget 
 Tuning method 
 What should be considered a hyperparameter? 
 
 2.4 Schedules 
 
 3 Results 
 
 How well do optimizers work out-of-the-box? 
 How much do tuning and schedules help? 
 Which optimizers work well after tuning? 
 
 4 Limitations 
 
 Generalization of the results 
 Influence of the hyperparameter search strategy 
 
 5 Conclusion 
 References 
 A List of optimizers and schedules considered 
 B List of optimizers selected 
 C Robustness to random seeds 
 D Re-Tuning experiments 
 E List of schedules selected 
 F ArXiv Mentions 
 G Improvement after tuning 
 H Optimizer performance across test problems 
 I Tabular version 
 Appendix References 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: arXiv.org perpetual non-exclusive license
 
 
arXiv:2007.01547v6 [cs.LG] 10 Aug 2021 
 
 
 Descending through a Crowded Valley —
 Benchmarking Deep Learning Optimizers 
 
 
 Robin M. Schmidt
 
 Affiliation: Methods of Machine Learning, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany
 
 Correspondence to: robin.schmidt.97@web.de 
 
    
 Frank Schneider
 
 Affiliation: Methods of Machine Learning, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany
 
 Correspondence to: f.schneider@uni-tuebingen.de 
 
    
 Philipp Hennig
 
 Affiliation: Methods of Machine Learning, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany
 
 Affiliation: Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, Tübingen, Germany
 

 Abstract 
 
 Choosing the optimizer is considered to be among the most crucial design decisions in deep learning, and it is not an easy one.
The growing literature now lists hundreds of optimization methods.
In the absence of clear theoretical guidance and conclusive empirical evidence, the decision is often made based on anecdotes.
In this work, we aim to replace these anecdotes, if not with a conclusive ranking, then at least with evidence-backed heuristics.
To do so, we perform an extensive, standardized benchmark of fifteen particularly popular deep learning optimizers while giving a concise overview of the wide range of possible choices.
Analyzing more than , individual runs, we contribute the following three points:
(i) Optimizer performance varies greatly across tasks.
(ii) We observe that evaluating multiple optimizers with default parameters works approximately as well as tuning the hyperparameters of a single, fixed optimizer.
(iii) While we cannot discern an optimization method clearly dominating across all tested tasks, we identify a significantly reduced subset of specific optimizers and parameter choices that generally lead to competitive results in our experiments:
 Adam remains a strong contender, with newer methods failing to significantly and consistently outperform it.
Our open-sourced results 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 https://github.com/SirRob1997/Crowded-Valley---Results are available as challenging and well-tuned baselines for more meaningful evaluations of novel optimization methods without requiring any further computational efforts. 
 
 
 
 Keywords: Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Optimization, Optimizers, Benchmark, Benchmarking, Comparison
 affiliationnotice: Equal contribution 
 
 1 Introduction 

 
 Large-scale stochastic optimization drives a wide variety of machine learning tasks.
Because choosing the right optimization method and effectively tuning its hyperparameters heavily influences the training speed and final performance of the learned model, it is an important, every-day challenge to practitioners. It is probably the task that requires the most time and resources in many applications. Hence, stochastic optimization has been a focal point of research, engendering an ever-growing list of methods (cf. Figure   1 ), many of them targeted at deep learning.
The hypothetical machine learning practitioner who is able to keep up with the literature now has the choice among hundreds of methods (see Table   2 in the appendix), each with their own set of tunable hyperparameters, when deciding how to train a model. 
 
 
 There is limited theoretical analysis that clearly favors one of these choices over the others.
Some authors have offered empirical comparisons on comparably small sets of popular methods ( Wilson et al., 2017 ; Choi et al., 2019 ; Sivaprasad et al., 2020 , e.g.) ; but for most optimizers, the only empirical evaluation is offered by the original work introducing the method.
Many practitioners and researchers, meanwhile, rely on personal and anecdotal experience, and informal discussion with colleagues or on social media.
The result is an often unclear, ever-changing “state of the art” occasionally driven by hype.
The key obstacle for an objective benchmark is the combinatorial cost of such an endeavor posed by comparing a large number of methods on a large number of problems, with the high resource and time cost of tuning each method’s parameters and repeating each (stochastic) experiment repeatedly for fidelity. 
 
 
 
 We conduct a large-scale benchmark of optimizers to ground the ongoing debate about deep learning optimizers on empirical evidence, and to help understand how the choice of optimization methods and hyperparameters influences the training performance.
Specifically, we examine whether recently proposed methods show an improved performance compared to more established methods such as SGD or Adam . Additionally, we assess whether there exist optimization methods with well-working default hyperparameters that are able to keep up with tuned optimizers.
To this end, we evaluate fifteen optimization methods, selected for their perceived popularity, on a range of representative deep learning problems (see Figure   4 ) drawing conclusions from tens of thousands of individual training runs. 
 
 
 Right up front, we want to state that it is impossible to include all optimizers (see Table   2 in the appendix), and to satisfy any and all expectations readers may have on tuning, initialization, or the choice of problems—not least because everyone has different expectations in this regard.
In our personal opinion , what is needed is an empirical comparison by a third party not involved in the original works. As the target audience of our work, we assume a careful practitioner who does not have access to near-limitless resources, nor to a broad range of personal experiences.
As such, the core contributions of our work are: 
 
 
 1. Assessing the progress in deep learning optimization. 

 
 A literature review provides a compact but extensive list of recent advances in stochastic optimization.
We identify more than a hundred optimization methods (see Table   2 in the appendix) and more than families of hyperparameter schedules (see Table   3 in the appendix) proposed for deep learning.
We conduct a large-scale optimizer benchmark, specifically focusing on problems arising in deep learning.
We evaluate fifteen optimizers on eight deep learning problems using four different schedules, tuning over dozens of hyperparameter settings.
To our knowledge, this is the most comprehensive empirical evaluation of deep learning optimizers to date (see Section   1.1 on related work). 
 
 
 
 2. Insights from more than , optimization runs. 

 
 Our empirical experiments indicate that an optimizer’s performance highly depends on the problem (see Figure   4 ).
But some high-level trends emerge, too:
(1) Evaluating multiple optimizers with default hyperparameters works approximately as well as tuning the hyperparameters for a fixed optimizer.
(2) Using an additional untuned learning rate schedule helps on average, but its effect varies greatly depending on the optimizer and the problem.
(3) While there is no optimizer that clearly dominates across all tested workloads, some of the methods we tested exhibited highly variable performance. Others demonstrated decent performance consistently. We deliberately abstain from recommending a single one among them, because we could not find a clear winner with statistical confidence. 
 
 
 
 3. An open-source baseline for future optimizer benchmarks and meta-learning approaches. 

 
 Our results are available in an open and easily accessible form (see Footnote 1 on Page 1).
This data set contains , unique runs, each consisting of thousands of individual data points, such as the mini-batch training losses of every iteration or epoch-wise performance measures, for example, the loss on the full validation set or test set accuracy.
These results can be used as competitive and well-tuned baselines for future benchmarks of new optimizers, drastically reducing the amount of computational budget required for a meaningful optimizer comparison.
This collection of training curves could also be used for meta-learning novel optimization methods, hyperparameter search strategies, or hyperparameter adaptation strategies.
To encourage researches to contribute to this collection, we made our baselines easily expandable. footnote   1 
 
 
 The high-level result of our benchmark is, perhaps expectedly, not a clear winner.
Instead, our comparison shows that, while some optimizers are frequently decent, they also generally perform similarly, often switching their positions in the ranking.
This result is reminiscent, albeit not formally a rigorous result of the No Free Lunch Theorem ( Wolpert & Macready, 1997 ) .
A key insight of our comparison is that a practitioner with a new deep learning task can expect to do about equally well by taking almost any method from our benchmark and tuning it, as they would by investing the same computational resources into running a set of optimizers with their default settings and picking the winner. 
 
 
 Possibly the most important takeaway from our comparison is that “there are now enough optimizers”.
Methods research in stochastic optimization should focus on significant (conceptual, functional, performance) improvements—such as methods specifically suited for certain problem types, inner-loop parameter tuning or structurally novel methods.
We make this claim not to discourage research but, quite on the contrary, to offer a motivation for more meaningful, non-incremental research. 
 
 
 
 1.1 Related work 

 
 Following the rapid increase in publications on optimizers, benchmarking these methods for the application in deep learning has only recently attracted significant interest.
 Schneider et al. (2019) introduced a benchmarking framework called DeepOBS , which includes a wide range of realistic deep learning problems together with standardized procedures for evaluating optimizers.
 Metz et al. (2020) presented TaskSet , another collection of optimization problems focusing on smaller but more numerous problems.
For the empirical analysis presented here, we use DeepOBS as it provides optimization problems closer to real-world deep learning tasks.
In contrast to our evaluation of existing methods, TaskSet and its analysis focuses on meta-learning new optimizers or hyperparameters. 
 
 
 Both Choi et al. (2019) and Sivaprasad et al. (2020) analyzed specific aspects of the benchmarking process.
 Sivaprasad et al. (2020) used DeepOBS to illustrate that the relative
performance of an optimizer depends significantly on the used hyperparameter
tuning budget.
The analysis by Choi et al. (2019) supports this point, stating that “the hyperparameter search space may be the single most important factor explaining the rankings”.
They further stress a hierarchy among optimizers, demonstrating that, given sufficient hyperparameter tuning, more general optimizers can never be outperformed by special cases.
In their study, however, they manually defined a hyperparameter search space per optimizer and problem basing it either on prior published results, prior experiences, or pre-tuning trials. 
 
 
 Here, we instead aim to identify well-performing general-purpose optimizers for deep learning, especially when there is no prior knowledge about well-working hyperparameter values for each specific problem. We further elaborate on the influence of our chosen hyperparameter search strategy in Section   4 discussing the limitations of our empirical study. 
 
 
 Our work is also related to empirical generalization studies of adaptive methods, such as that of Wilson et al. (2017) which sparked an extensive discussion whether adaptive methods (e.g. Adam ) tend to generalize worse than standard first-order methods (i.e. SGD ). By focusing on and reporting the test set accuracy we implicitly include the generalization capabilities of different optimizers in our benchmark results, an important characteristic of deep learning optimization. 
 
 
 
 
 2 Benchmarking process 

 
 Any benchmarking effort requires tricky decisions on the experimental setup that influence the results.
Evaluating on a specific task or picking a certain tuning budget may favor or disadvantage certain methods ( Sivaprasad et al., 2020 ) .
It is impossible to avoid these decisions or to cover all possible choices.
Aiming for generality, we evaluate the performance on eight diverse real-world deep learning problems from different disciplines ( Section   2.1 ).
From a collection of more than a hundred deep learning optimizers ( Table   2 in the appendix) we select fifteen of the most popular choices (see Figure   1 ) for this benchmark ( Section   2.2 ).
For each problem and optimizer we evaluate all possible combinations of four different tuning budgets ( Section   2.3 ) and four selected learning rate schedules ( Section   2.4 ), covering the following combinatorial space: 
 
 
 
 Combining those options results in , configurations, where each of the fifteen optimizers is evaluated in settings (i.e. on eight problems, with four budgets and four schedules).
Including hyperparameter search and estimating the confidence interval, our main benchmark consists of , unique training curves. 
 
 
 2.1 Problems 

 
 We consider the eight optimization tasks summarized in Table   1 , available as the “small” (P1–P4) and “large” (P5–P8) problem sets in DeepOBS .
A detailed description of these problems, including architectures, training parameters, etc. can be found in the work of Schneider et al. (2019) . 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All experiments were performed using version 1.2.0-beta of DeepOBS and TensorFlow version 1.15 ( Abadi et al., 2015 ) . 
 
 
 
 DeepOBS provides several performance metrics, including the training and test loss, and the validation accuracy.
While these are all relevant, any comparative evaluation of optimizers requires picking only a few, if not just one particular performance metric.
For our analysis ( Section   3 ), we focus on the final test accuracy (or the final test loss, if accuracy is not defined for this problem).
This metric captures the optimizer’s ability to generalize and is thus highly relevant for practical use.
Our publicly released results include all metrics for completeness.
An example of training loss performance is shown in Figure   17 in the appendix.
Accordingly, the tuning ( Section   2.3 ) is done with respect to the validation metric.
We discuss possible limitations resulting from these choices in Section   4 . 
 
 
 
 2.2 Optimizer 

 
 In Table   2 in the appendix we collect over a hundred optimization methods
introduced for or used in deep learning.
This list was collected by multiple researchers trying to keep up with the field over recent years.
It is thus necessarily incomplete, although it may well represent one of the most exhaustive of such collections.
Even this incomplete list, though, contains too many entries for a benchmark with the degrees of freedom collected above. This is a serious problem for research: Even an author of a new optimizer, let alone a practitioner, cannot be expected to compare their work with every possible previous method. 
 
 
 We thus select a subset of fifteen optimizers, which we consider to be currently the most popular choices in the community (see Table   4 in the appendix).
These do not necessarily reflect the “best” methods, but are either
commonly used by practitioners and researchers, or have recently generated attention.
Our selection is focused on first-order optimization methods, both due to their
prevalence for non-convex optimization problems in deep learning as
well as to simplify the comparison. Whether there is a significant difference
between these optimizers or if they are inherently redundant is one of the
questions this work investigates. 
 
 
 Our list focuses on optimizers over optimization techniques, although the line between the two is admittedly blurry.
Techniques such as averaging weights ( Izmailov et al., 2018 , e.g.) or
ensemble methods ( Garipov et al., 2018 , e.g.) have been shown to be simple but
effective at improving the optimization performance.
Those methods, however, can be applied to all methods in our lists, similar to
regularization techniques, learning rate schedules, or tuning method.
We have, therefore, decided to omit them from Table   2 . 
 
 
 
 2.3 Tuning 

 
 Budget 

 
 Optimization methods for deep learning regularly expose hyperparameters to the user.
The user either relies on the default suggestion or sets them using experience from previous experiments, or using additional tuning runs to find the best-performing setting.
All optimizers in our benchmark have tunable hyperparameters, and we consider four different tuning budgets . 
 
 
 The first budget consists of just a single run.
This one-shot budget uses the default values proposed by the original authors, where available ( Table   4 in the appendix lists the default parameters).
If an optimizer performs well in this setting, this has great practical value, as it drastically reduces the computational resources required for successful training. 
 
 
 The small , medium and large budgets consist of , , and tuning runs, where the parameters for each setting are sampled using random search.
Tuning runs for the small and medium budget were sampled using the distributions defined in Table   4 .
The additional tuning runs of the large budget, however, were sampled using refined bounds:
For each combination of optimizer, problem, and learning rate schedule we use the same distribution as before, but restrict the search space, to contain all hyperparameter configurations of the top-performing tuning runs from the medium budget are included. 
 
 
 We use a single seed for tuning, but for all configurations repeat the best setting with ten different seeds.
This allows us to report standard deviations in addition to means, assessing stability.
Our tuning process can sometimes pick “lucky” seeds, which do not perform well when averaging over multiple runs.
This is arguably a feature rather than a bug, since it reflects practical reality.
If an optimizer is so unstable that ten random seeds are required for tuning—which would render this benchmark practically infeasible—it would be impractical for the end-user as well.
Our scoring naturally prefers stable optimizers.
 Appendices   C and  D provide further analysis of these cases and the general stability of our benchmark, showing amongst other things that failing seeds occur in less than of the tuning runs. 
 
 
 
 Tuning method 

 
 We tune parameters by random search without early-stopping for the small, medium and large budget.
Random search is a popular choice due to its efficiency over grid search ( Bergstra & Bengio, 2012 ) and its ease of implementation and parallelization compared to Bayesian optimization (further discussed in Section   4 ).
A minor complication of random search is that the sampling distribution affects the performance of the optimizer.
The sampling distribution acts as a prior over good parameter settings, and bad priors consequently ruin performance.
We followed the valid interval and intuition provided by the optimizers’ authors for relevant hyperparameters.
The resulting sampling distributions can be found in Table   4 in the appendix.
Even though a hyperparameter might have a similar name in different optimization methods (e.g. learning rate ), its appropriate search space can differ.
However, without grounded heuristics guiding the practitioner on how the hyperparameters differ between optimizers, the most straightforward approach for any user is to use the same search space.
Therefore, in case there was no prior knowledge provided in the cited work we chose similar distributions for similar hyperparameters across different optimizers. 
 
 
 
 What should be considered a hyperparameter? 

 
 There is a fuzzy boundary between (tunable) hyperparameters and (fixed) design parameters.
A recently contentious example is the in adaptive methods like Adam .
It was originally introduced as a safeguard against division by zero, but has recently been re-interpreted as a problem-dependent hyperparameter (see Choi et al. (2019) for a discussion).
Under this view, one can actually consider several optimizers called Adam : From an easy-to-tune but potentially limited , only tuning the learning rate, to the tricky-to-tune but all-powerful , which can approximate SGD in its hyperparameter space. While both share the update rule, we consider them to be different optimizers. For each update rule, we selected one popular choice of tunable parameters, e.g. (see Table   4 ). 
 
 
 
 
 2.4 Schedules 

 
 The literature on learning rate schedules is now nearly as extensive as that on optimizers (see Table   3 in the appendix).
 In theory , schedules can be applied to all hyperparameters of an optimization method but to keep our configuration space feasible, we only apply schedules to the learning rate, by far the most popular practical choice ( Goodfellow et al., 2016 ; Zhang et al., 2020 ) .
We choose four different learning rate schedules, trying to cover all major
types of schedules (see Appendix   E ): 
 
 • 
 
 A constant learning rate; 
 
 • 
 
 A cosine decay ( Loshchilov & Hutter, 2017 ) as an example of a smooth decay; 
 
 • 
 
 A cosine with warm restarts schedule ( Loshchilov & Hutter, 2017 ) as
a cyclical schedule; 
 
 • 
 
 A trapezoidal schedule ( Xing et al., 2018 ) from the warm-up schedules introduced in Goyal et al. (2017) . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 Results 

 
 How well do optimizers work out-of-the-box? 

 
 By comparing each optimizer’s one-shot results against the tuned versions of all fifteen optimizers, we can construct a 15 15 matrix of performance gains.
 Figure   2 illustrates this on five problems showing improvements by a positive sign and an orange cell.
Detailed plots for all problems are in Figures   10 and  11 in the appendix.
For example, the bottom left cell of the largest matrix in Figure   2 shows that AMSBound (1) tuned using a small budget performs better than SGD (15) with default parameters on this specific problem. 
 
 
 
 An orange row in Figure   2 indicates that an optimizer’s default setting is performing badly, since it can be beaten by any well-tuned competitor.
We can observe badly-performing default settings for Momentum , NAG and SGD , advocating the intuition that non-adaptive optimization methods require more tuning, but also for AMSGrad and Adadelta .
This is just a statement about the default parameters suggested by the authors or the popular frameworks; well-working default parameters might well exist for those methods.
Conversely, a white & blue row signals a well-performing default setting, since even tuned optimizers do not significantly outperform it.
 Adam , Nadam and Radam , as well as AMSBound , AdaBound and AdaBelief all have white or blue rows on several (but not all!) problems, supporting the rule of thumb that adaptive methods have well-working default parameters.
Conversely, orange (or blue ) columns highlight optimizers that, when tuned, perform better (or worse) than all untuned optimization methods.
We do not observe such columns consistently across tasks. This supports the conclusion that an optimizer’s performance is heavily problem-dependent and that there is no single best optimizer across workloads. 
 
 
 Figures   10 , 11 , 12 and  13 in the appendix suggest an interesting alternative approach for machine learning practitioners: Instead of picking a single optimizer and tuning its hyperparameters extensively, trying out a few optimizers with default settings and picking the best one yields competitive results with less computational and tuning choice efforts.
However, this might not hold for more complicated, structurally different tasks such as GANs ( Goodfellow et al., 2014 ) or Transformer models ( Vaswani et al., 2017 ) .
The similarity of those two approaches might be due to the fact that optimizers have implicit learning rate schedules ( Agarwal et al., 2020 ) and trying out different optimizers is similar to trying out different (well-tested) schedules. 
 
 
 
 How much do tuning and schedules help? 

 
 We consider the final performance achieved by varying budgets and schedules to quantify the usefulness of tuning and applying parameter-free schedules ( Figure   3 ).
While there is no clear trend for any individual setting (gray lines), in the median we observe that increasing the budget improves performance, albeit with diminishing returns.
For example, using the medium budget without any schedule leads to a median
relative improvement of roughly compared to the
default parameters (without schedule). 
 
 
 Applying an untuned schedule improves median performance as well.
For example, the large tuning budget coupled with a trapezoidal learning rate schedule leads to a median relative improvement of the performance of roughly compared to the default parameters.
However, while these trends hold in the median, their individual effect varies wildly among optimizers and problems, as is apparent from the noisy structure of the individual lines shown in Figure   3 . 
 
 
 
 
 Which optimizers work well after tuning? 

 
 Figure   4 compares the optimizers’ performance across all eight problems. There is no single optimizer that dominates its competitors across all tasks. Nevertheless, some optimizers generally perform well, while others can vary greatly in their behavior, most notably performing poorly on VAEs. 
 
 
 
 Further supporting the hypothesis of previous sections, we note that taking the best out of a small set of untuned optimizers — for example, Adam and AdaBound — frequently results in competitive performance. Except for the two VAE problems, the best of those two untuned optimizers generally falls within the distribution of the well-tuned methods.
Combining these runs with a tuned version of Adam (or a variant thereof) provides stable and slightly improved results across many problems in our benchmark.
To further increase the performance, our results suggest trying a different optimizer next, such as RMSProp or NAG .
Across multiple budgets and schedules, both optimizers show a consistently good performance on the RNN and All-CNN-C model, respectively. 
 
 
 Nevertheless, achieving (or getting close to) the absolute best performance still requires testing numerous optimizers.
Which optimizer wins in the end is problem-dependent: optimizers that achieve top scores on one problem can perform poorly on other tasks.
We note in passing that the individual optimizer rankings changes when considering e.g. a smaller budget or an additional learning rate schedule (see Figures   14 , 16 and  15 in the appendix). However, the overall trends described here are consistent. 
 
 
 The idea that optimizers perform consistently better or worse for specific model architectures or tasks has been regularly theorized and mentioned in the literature.
Indeed, our results support this hypothesis, with NAG often beating Adam on image classification tasks, and RMSProp being consistently on top for the natural language modeling task (see Tables   6 , 7 , 8 and  9 ).
Understanding whether and why certain optimizers favor specific problem types presents an interesting research avenue and might lead to more sophisticated optimizers that utilize the problem characteristics. 
 
 
 
 
 4 Limitations 

 
 Any empirical benchmark has constraints and limitations.
Here we highlight some of ours’ and characterize the context within which our results should be considered. 
 
 
 Generalization of the results 

 
 By using the problems from DeepOBS , which span models and data sets of varying complexity, size, and different domains, we aim for generalization.
Our results are, despite our best efforts, reflective of not just these setups, but also of the chosen training parameters, the software framework, and further unavoidable choices.
The design of our comparisons aims to be close to what an informed practitioner would encounter for a relatively novel problem in practice.
It goes without saying that even a carefully curated range of problems
cannot cover all challenges of machine learning or even just deep learning.
In particular, our conclusions may not generalize to other workloads
such as GANs, reinforcement learning, or applications where e.g. memory usage is
crucial. 
 
 
 Similarly, our benchmark does not cover more large-scale problems such as
ImageNet ( Deng et al., 2009 ) or transformer models ( Vaswani et al., 2017 ) .
While there is oft-mentioned anecdotal evidence that the characteristics of deep learning problems change for larger models, it would simply be impossible to perform the kind of combinatorial exploration of choices covered in our benchmark, even with significant hardware resources.
The inclusion of larger models would require reducing the number of tested optimizers, schedules or tuning methods and would thus shift the focus of the benchmark.
Studying whether there are systematic differences between different types of deep learning problems presents an interesting avenue for further research. 
 
 
 We do not consider this study the definitive work on benchmarking deep learning
optimizers, but rather an important and significant step in the right direction.
While our comparison includes many “dimensions” of deep learning
optimization, e.g. by considering different problems, tuning budgets, and
learning rate schedules, there are certainly many more.
To keep the benchmark feasible, we chose to use the fixed regularization and
batch size that DeepOBS suggests for each problem.
We also did not include optimization techniques such as weight averaging or
ensemble methods as they can be combined with all evaluated optimizers and hence would increase the computational cost further.
Future works could study how these techniques interact with different
optimization methods.
However, to keep our benchmark feasible, we have selected what we believe to
be the most important aspects affecting an optimizer comparison.
We hope, that our study lays the groundwork so that other works can build
on it and analyze these questions. 
 
 
 
 Influence of the hyperparameter search strategy 

 
 As noted by, e.g., Choi et al. (2019) and Sivaprasad et al. (2020) , the hyperparameter tuning method, its budget, and its search domain, can significantly affect performance.
By reporting results from four different hyperparameter optimization budgets (including the tuning-free one-shot setting) we try to quantify the effect of tuning.
We argue that our random search process presents a realistic setting for many but certainly not all deep learning practitioners.
One may criticize our approach as simplistic, but note that more elaborate schemes, in particular Bayesian optimization, would multiply the number of design decisions (kernels, search utilities, priors, etc.) and thus significantly complicate the analysis. 
 
 
 The individual hyperparameter sampling distributions significantly affect the relative rankings of the optimizers.
A poorly chosen search space can make successful tuning next to impossible.
In our benchmark, we use relatively broad initial search spaces, dozens of tuning runs and a refining of those search spaces for the large budget.
Note, though, that the problem of finding appropriate search spaces is inherited by practitioners.
It is arguably an implicit flaw of an optimization method that expects hyperparameter tuning not to come with well-identified search spaces for those parameters and this should thus be reflected in a benchmark. 
 
 
 
 
 5 Conclusion 

 
 Faced with an avalanche of research developing new stochastic optimization methods,
practitioners are left with the near-impossible task of not just picking a method from this ever-growing list, but also to guess or tune hyperparameters for them, even to continuously tune them during training.
Despite efforts by the community, there is currently no method that clearly dominates the competition. 
 
 
 We have provided an extensive empirical benchmark of optimization methods for deep learning.
It reveals structure in the crowded field of training methods for deep learning:
First, although many methods perform competitively, a subset of methods tends to come up near the top across the spectrum of problems. Despite years of new research by many committed authors, Adam remains a viable (but also not a clearly superior) choice for many problems, with NAG or RMSProp being interesting alternatives that were able to boost performance on individual problems.
Secondly, tuning helps about as much as trying other optimizers.
Our open and extendable data set allows many, more technical observations, for example, that the stability to re-runs is an often overlooked challenge. 
 
 
 Perhaps the most important takeaway from our study is hidden in plain sight: the field is in danger of being drowned by noise.
Different optimizers exhibit a surprisingly similar performance distribution compared to a single method that is re-tuned or simply re-run with different random seeds.
It is thus questionable how much insight the development of new methods yields, at least if they are conceptually and functionally close to the existing population. We hope that benchmarks like ours can help the community to move beyond inventing yet another optimizer and to focus on key challenges, such as automatic, inner-loop tuning for truly robust and efficient optimization.
We are releasing our data to allow future authors to ensure that their method contributes to such ends. 
 
 
 Acknowledgments 

 
 The authors gratefully acknowledge financial support by the European Research Council through ERC StG Action 757275 / PANAMA; the DFG Cluster of Excellence “Machine Learning - New Perspectives for Science”, EXC 2064/1, project number 390727645; the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) through the Tübingen AI Center (FKZ: 01IS18039A); and funds from the Ministry of Science, Research and Arts of the State of Baden-Württemberg.
Moreover, the authors thank the International Max Planck Research School for Intelligent Systems (IMPRS-IS) for supporting Frank Schneider.
We would like to thank Aaron Bahde for providing his analysis on the robustness to random seeds.
Further, we are grateful to Lukas Balles, Frederik Künstner, and Felix Dangel for, among other things, helping to create the list of optimizers and providing feedback to the manuscript. Lastly, we want to thank Agustinus Kristiadi, Jonathan Wenger, Marius Hobbhahn, and Lukas Tatzel for their additional feedback. 
 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 Abadi et al. (2015) 
 
Abadi, M., Agarwal, A., Barham, P., Brevdo, E., Chen, Z., Citro, C., Corrado,
G. S., Davis, A., Dean, J., Devin, M., Ghemawat, S., Goodfellow, I., Harp,
A., Irving, G., Isard, M., Jia, Y., Jozefowicz, R., Kaiser, L., Kudlur, M.,
Levenberg, J., Mané, D., Monga, R., Moore, S., Murray, D., Olah, C.,
Schuster, M., Shlens, J., Steiner, B., Sutskever, I., Talwar, K., Tucker, P.,
Vanhoucke, V., Vasudevan, V., Viégas, F., Vinyals, O., Warden, P.,
Wattenberg, M., Wicke, M., Yu, Y., and Zheng, X.

 
 TensorFlow: Large-Scale Machine Learning on Heterogeneous
Systems, 2015.

 
 URL http://tensorflow.org/ .

 
 
 Agarwal et al. (2020) 
 
Agarwal, N., Anil, R., Hazan, E., Koren, T., and Zhang, C.

 
 Disentangling Adaptive Gradient Methods from Learning Rates.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2002.11803 , 2020.

 
 
 Bergstra & Bengio (2012) 
 
Bergstra, J. and Bengio, Y.

 
 Random Search for Hyper-Parameter Optimization.

 
 Journal of Machine Learning Research, JMLR , 13, 2012.

 
 
 Choi et al. (2019) 
 
Choi, D., Shallue, C. J., Nado, Z., Lee, J., Maddison, C. J., and Dahl, G. E.

 
 On Empirical Comparisons of Optimizers for Deep Learning.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1910.05446 , 2019.

 
 
 Deng et al. (2009) 
 
Deng, J., Dong, W., Socher, R., Li, L.-J., Li, K., and Fei-Fei, L.

 
 ImageNet: A Large-Scale Hierarchical Image Database.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE Computer Society Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition . IEEE, 2009.

 
 
 Garipov et al. (2018) 
 
Garipov, T., Izmailov, P., Podoprikhin, D., Vetrov, D. P., and Wilson, A. G.

 
 Loss Surfaces, Mode Connectivity, and Fast Ensembling of DNNs.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31,
NeurIPS , 2018.

 
 
 Goodfellow et al. (2016) 
 
Goodfellow, I., Bengio, Y., and Courville, A.

 
 Deep Learning .

 
 MIT Press, 2016.

 
 
 Goodfellow et al. (2014) 
 
Goodfellow, I. J., Pouget-Abadie, J., Mirza, M., Xu, B., Warde-Farley, D.,
Ozair, S., Courville, A., and Bengio, Y.

 
 Generative Adversarial Nets.

 
 In Ghahramani, Z., Welling, M., Cortes, C., Lawrence, N. D., and
Weinberger, K. Q. (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 27, NIPS , 2014.

 
 
 Goyal et al. (2017) 
 
Goyal, P., Dollár, P., Girshick, R., Noordhuis, P., Wesolowski, L., Kyrola,
A., Tulloch, A., Jia, Y., and He, K.

 
 Accurate, Large Minibatch SGD: Training ImageNet in 1 Hour.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1706.02677 , 2017.

 
 
 Izmailov et al. (2018) 
 
Izmailov, P., Podoprikhin, D., Garipov, T., Vetrov, D., and G, W. A.

 
 Averaging weights leads to wider optima and better generalization.

 
 In Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence - Proceedings of the
34th Conference, UAI 2018 , 2018.

 
 
 Loshchilov & Hutter (2017) 
 
Loshchilov, I. and Hutter, F.

 
 SGDR: Stochastic Gradient Descent with Warm Restarts.

 
 In 5th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2017.

 
 
 Metz et al. (2020) 
 
Metz, L., Maheswaranathan, N., Sun, R., Freeman, C. D., Poole, B., and
Sohl-Dickstein, J.

 
 Using a thousand optimization tasks to learn hyperparameter search
strategies. arXiv preprint: 
 2002.11887 , 2020.

 
 
 Schneider et al. (2019) 
 
Schneider, F., Balles, L., and Hennig, P.

 
 DeepOBS: A Deep Learning Optimizer Benchmark Suite.

 
 In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2019.

 
 
 Sivaprasad et al. (2020) 
 
Sivaprasad, P. T., Mai, F., Vogels, T., Jaggi, M., and Fleuret, F.

 
 Optimizer Benchmarking Needs to Account for Hyperparameter Tuning.

 
 In 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2020.

 
 
 Vaswani et al. (2017) 
 
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A. N.,
Kaiser, Ł., and Polosukhin, I.

 
 Attention Is All You Need.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 30, NIPS ,
2017.

 
 
 Wilson et al. (2017) 
 
Wilson, A. C., Roelofs, R., Stern, M., Srebro, N., and Recht, B.

 
 The Marginal Value of Adaptive Gradient Methods in Machine
Learning.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 30, NIPS ,
2017.

 
 
 Wolpert & Macready (1997) 
 
Wolpert, D. H. and Macready, W. G.

 
 No free lunch theorems for optimization.

 
 IEEE Trans. Evol. Comput. , 1(1):67–82,
1997.

 
 
 Xing et al. (2018) 
 
Xing, C., Arpit, D., Tsirigotis, C., and Bengio, Y.

 
 A Walk with SGD. arXiv preprint: 
 1802.08770 , 2018.

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2020) 
 
Zhang, A., Lipton, Z. C., Li, M., and Smola, A. J.

 
 Dive into Deep Learning .

 
 2020.

 
 https://d2l.ai .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A List of optimizers and schedules considered 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix B List of optimizers selected 

 
 
 
 
 Appendix C Robustness to random seeds 

 
 Data subsampling, random weight initialization, dropout and other aspects of deep learning introduce stochasticity to the training process.
As such, judging the performance of an optimizer on a single run may be misleading due to random fluctuations.
In our benchmark we use different seeds of the final setting for each budget in order to judge the stability of the optimizer and the results.
However, to keep the magnitude of this benchmark feasible, we only use a single seed while tuning, analogously to how a single user would progress.
This means that our tuning process can sometimes choose hyperparameter settings which might not even converge for seeds other than the one used for tuning. 
 
 
 Figure   5 illustrates this behavior on an example problem where we used seeds throughout a tuning process using grid search.
The figure shows that in the beginning performance increases when increasing the learning rate, followed by an area were it sometimes works but other times diverges.
Picking hyperparameters from this “danger zone” can lead to unstable results.
In this case, where we only consider the learning rate, it is clear that decreasing the learning rate a bit to get away from this “danger zone” would lead to a more stable, but equally well-performing algorithm.
In more complicated cases, however, we are unable to use a simple heuristic such as this.
This might be the case, for example, when tuning multiple hyperparameters or when the effect of the hyperparameter on the performance is less straight forward.
Thus, this is a problem not created by improperly using the tuning method, but by an unstable optimization method. 
 
 
 
 In our benchmark, we observe a total of , , and divergent seeds for the small, medium, and large budget respectively.
This amounts to roughly of the runs in each budget.
Most of them occur when using SGD ( , , and cases for the small, medium and large budget respectively), Adagrad ( , , and cases for the small, medium and large budget respectively) or Adadelta ( , , and cases for the small, medium and large budget respectively), which might indicate that modern adaptive methods are less prone to this kind of behavior.
None of these cases occur when using a constant schedule, and most of them occur when using the trapezoidal schedule ( , , and cases for the small, medium and large budget respectively).
However, as our data on diverging seeds is very limited, it is not conclusive enough to draw solid conclusions. 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix D Re-Tuning experiments 

 
 In order to test the stability of our benchmark and especially the tuning method, we selected two optimizers in our benchmark and re-tuned them on all problems a second time.
We used completely independent random seeds for both tuning and the repetitions with the final setting.
 Figure   6 and Figure   7 show the distribution of all random seeds for both the original tuning as well as the re-tuning runs for RMSProp and Adadelta .
It is evident, that re-tuning results in a shift of this distribution, since small (stochastic) changes during tuning can result in a different chosen hyperparameter setting. 
 
 
 These differences also highlight how crucial it is to look at multiple problems.
Individually, small changes, such as re-doing the tuning with different seeds can lead to optimization methods changing rankings.
However, they tend to average out when looking at an unbiased list of multiple problems.
These results also further supports the statement made in Section   3 that there is no optimization method clearly domination the competition, as small performance margins might vanish when re-tuning. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix E List of schedules selected 

 
 The schedules selected for our benchmark are illustrated in Figure   8 . All learning rate schedules are multiplied by the initial learning rate found via tuning or picked as the default choice. 
 
 
 
 We use a cosine decay ( Loshchilov & Hutter, 2017 ) that starts at and decays in the form of a half period of a cosine to .
As an example of a cyclical learning rate schedule, we test a cosine with warm restarts schedule with a cycle length which increases by a factor of after each cycle without any discount factor.
Depending on the number of epochs we train our model, it is possible that training stops shortly after one of those warm restarts.
Since performance typically declines shortly after increasing the learning rate, we don’t report the final performance for this schedule, but instead the performance achieved after the last complete period (just before the next restart).
This approach is suggested by the original work of Loshchilov & Hutter (2017) .
However, we still use the final performance while tuning. 
 
 
 A representation of a schedule including warm-up is the trapezoidal schedule from Xing et al. (2018) .
For our benchmark we set a warm-up and cool-down period of the training time. 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix F ArXiv Mentions 

 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix G Improvement after tuning 

 
 When looking at Figure   2 , one might realize that few diagonal entries contain negative values. Since diagonal entries reflect the intra-optimizer performance change when tuning on the respective task, this might feel quite counterintuitive at first. In theory , this can occur if the respective tuning distributions is chosen poorly, the tuning randomness simply got “unlucky”, or we observe significantly worse results for our additional seeds (see Figure   5 ). 
 
 
 If we compare Figures   10 and  11 to Figures   12 and  13 we can see most negative diagonal entries vanish or at least diminish in magnitude.
For the latter two figures we allow for more tuning runs and only consider the seed that has been used for this tuning process.
The fact that the effect of negative diagonal entries reduces is an indication that they mostly result from the two latter reasons mentioned. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix H Optimizer performance across test problems 

 
 Similarly to Figure   4 , we show the corresponding plots for the small budget with no learning rate schedule in Figure   14 and the medium budget with the cosine and trapezoidal learning rate schedule in Figures   15 and  16 . Additionally, in Figure   17 we show the same setting as Figure   4 but showing the training loss instead of the test loss/accuracy. 
 
 
 
 The high-level trends mentioned in Section   3 also hold for the smaller tuning budget in Figure   14 . Namely, taking the winning optimizer for several untuned algorithms (here marked for Adam and AdaBound ) will result in a decent performance in most problems with much less effort.
Adding a tuned version Adam (or variants thereof) to this selection would result in a very competitive performance.
The absolute top-performance however, is achieved by changing optimizers across different problems. 
 
 
 Note, although the medium budget is a true superset of the small budget it is not given that it will always perform better.
Our tuning procedure guarantees that the validation performance on the seed that has been used for tuning is as least as good on the medium budget than on the small budget.
But due to averaging over multiple seeds and reporting test performance instead of validation performance, this hierarchy is no longer guaranteed.
We discuss the possible effects of averaging over multiple seeds further in Appendix   C . 
 
 
 
 
 
 The same high-level trends also emerge when considering the cosine or trapezoidal learning rate schedule in Figures   15 and  16 .
We can also see that the top performance in general increase when adding a schedule (cf. Figure   4 and Figure   16 ). 
 
 
 Comparing Figure   4 and Figure   17 we can assess the generalization performance of the optimization method not only to an unseen test set, but also to a different performance metric (accuracy instead of loss).
Again, the overall picture of varying performance across different problems remains consistent when considering the training loss performance.
Similarily to the figures showing test set performance we cannot identify a clear winner, although Adam ands its variants, such as Radam perform near the top consistently.
Note that while Figure   17 shows the training loss, the optimizers have still be tuned to achieve the best validation performance (i.e. accuracy if available, else the loss). 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix I Tabular version 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix References 

 
 
 Aitchison (2020) 
 
Aitchison, L.

 
 Bayesian filtering unifies adaptive and non-adaptive neural network
optimization methods.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33,
NeurIPS , 2020.

 
 
 Almeida et al. (2021) 
 
Almeida, D., Winter, C., Tang, J., and Zaremba, W.

 
 A Generalizable Approach to Learning Optimizers. arXiv 
preprint: 2106.00958 , 2021.

 
 
 Anil et al. (2019) 
 
Anil, R., Gupta, V., Koren, T., and Singer, Y.

 
 Memory Efficient Adaptive Optimization.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32,
NeurIPS , 2019.

 
 
 Anil et al. (2020) 
 
Anil, R., Gupta, V., Koren, T., Regan, K., and Singer, Y.

 
 Second Order Optimization Made Practical. arXiv 
preprint: 2002.09018 , 2020.

 
 
 Ayadi & Turinici (2020) 
 
Ayadi, I. and Turinici, G.

 
 Stochastic Runge-Kutta methods and adaptive SGD-G2 stochastic
gradient descent. arXiv preprint: 
 2002.09304 , 2020.

 
 
 Bae et al. (2019) 
 
Bae, K., Ryu, H., and Shin, H.

 
 Does Adam optimizer keep close to the optimal point?.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1911.00289 , 2019.

 
 
 Bahrami & Zadeh (2021) 
 
Bahrami, D. and Zadeh, S. P.

 
 Gravity Optimizer: a Kinematic Approach on Optimization in Deep
Learning. arXiv preprint: 
 2101.09192 , 2021.

 
 
 Bai & Zhang (2019) 
 
Bai, J. and Zhang, J.

 
 BGADAM: Boosting based Genetic-Evolutionary ADAM for Convolutional
Neural Network Optimization. arXiv preprint: 
 1908.08015 , 2019.

 
 
 Balles & Hennig (2018) 
 
Balles, L. and Hennig, P.

 
 Dissecting Adam: The Sign, Magnitude and Variance of Stochastic
Gradients.

 
 In 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2018.

 
 
 Bello et al. (2017) 
 
Bello, I., Zoph, B., Vasudevan, V., and Le, Q. V.

 
 Neural Optimizer Search with Reinforcement Learning.

 
 In 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2017.

 
 
 Bernstein et al. (2018) 
 
Bernstein, J., Wang, Y., Azizzadenesheli, K., and Anandkumar, A.

 
 SIGNSGD: Compressed Optimisation for Non-Convex Problems.

 
 In 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2018.

 
 
 Berrada et al. (2020) 
 
Berrada, L., Zisserman, A., and Kumar, M. P.

 
 Training Neural Networks for and by Interpolation.

 
 In 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2020.

 
 
 Borysenko & Byshkin (2020) 
 
Borysenko, O. and Byshkin, M.

 
 CoolMomentum: A Method for Stochastic Optimization by Langevin
Dynamics with Simulated Annealing. arXiv preprint: 
 2005.14605 , 2020.

 
 
 Botev et al. (2017) 
 
Botev, A., Ritter, H., and Barber, D.

 
 Practical Gauss-Newton Optimisation for Deep Learning.

 
 In 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2017.

 
 
 Bottou (2012) 
 
Bottou, L.

 
 Stochastic gradient descent tricks.

 
 In Neural networks: Tricks of the trade . Springer, 2012.

 
 
 Castera et al. (2021) 
 
Castera, C., Bolte, J., Févotte, C., and Pauwels, E.

 
 Second-order step-size tuning of SGD for non-convex optimization.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2103.03570 , 2021.

 
 
 Chae et al. (2021) 
 
Chae, Y., Wilke, D. N., and Kafka, D.

 
 GOALS: Gradient-Only Approximations for Line Searches Towards Robust
and Consistent Training of Deep Neural Networks. arXiv 
preprint: 2105.10915 , 2021.

 
 
 Chakrabarti & Chopra (2021) 
 
Chakrabarti, K. and Chopra, N.

 
 Generalized AdaGrad (G-AdaGrad) and Adam: A State-Space
Perspective. arXiv preprint: 
 2106.00092 , 2021.

 
 
 Chen et al. (2018) 
 
Chen, C., Choi, J., Brand, D., Agrawal, A., Zhang, W., and Gopalakrishnan, K.

 
 AdaComp: Adaptive Residual Gradient Compression for Data-Parallel
Distributed Training.

 
 In 32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI ,
2018.

 
 
 Chen et al. (2020a) 
 
Chen, J., Zhou, D., Tang, Y., Yang, Z., Cao, Y., and Gu, Q.

 
 Closing the Generalization Gap of Adaptive Gradient Methods in
Training Deep Neural Networks.

 
 In 29th International Joint Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, IJCAI , 2020a.

 
 
 Chen et al. (2020b) 
 
Chen, R. T. Q., Choi, D., Balles, L., Duvenaud, D., and Hennig, P.

 
 Self-Tuning Stochastic Optimization with Curvature-Aware Gradient
Filtering. arXiv preprint: 
 2011.04803 ,
2020b.

 
 
 Chen et al. (2021) 
 
Chen, T., Guo, Z., Sun, Y., and Yin, W.

 
 CADA: Communication-Adaptive Distributed Adam.

 
 In 24th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and
Statistics, AISTATS , 2021.

 
 
 Chen et al. (2019a) 
 
Chen, X., Liu, S., Sun, R., and Hong, M.

 
 On the Convergence of A Class of Adam-Type Algorithms for Non-Convex
Optimization.

 
 In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2019a.

 
 
 Chen et al. (2019b) 
 
Chen, Y., Jing, H., Zhao, W., Liu, Z., Li, O., Qiao, L., Xue, W., Fu, H., and
Yang, G.

 
 An Adaptive Remote Stochastic Gradient Method for Training Neural
Networks. arXiv preprint: 
 1905.01422 ,
2019b.

 
 
 Chen et al. (2019c) 
 
Chen, Y., Jing, H., Zhao, W., Liu, Z., Qiao, L., Xue, W., Fu, H., and Yang, G.

 
 NAMSG: An Efficient Method For Training Neural Networks.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1905.01422 ,
2019c.

 
 
 Chen & Zhou (2020) 
 
Chen, Z. and Zhou, Y.

 
 Momentum with Variance Reduction for Nonconvex Composition
Optimization. arXiv preprint: 
 2005.07755 , 2020.

 
 
 Choi et al. (2019) 
 
Choi, D., Shallue, C. J., Nado, Z., Lee, J., Maddison, C. J., and Dahl, G. E.

 
 On Empirical Comparisons of Optimizers for Deep Learning.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1910.05446 , 2019.

 
 
 Daley & Amato (2020) 
 
Daley, B. and Amato, C.

 
 Expectigrad: Fast Stochastic Optimization with Robust Convergence
Properties. arXiv preprint: 
 2010.01356 , 2020.

 
 
 de Roos et al. (2021) 
 
de Roos, F., Jidling, C., Wills, A., Schön, T., and Hennig, P.

 
 A Probabilistically Motivated Learning Rate Adaptation for
Stochastic Optimization. arXiv preprint: 
 2102.10880 , 2021.

 
 
 Defazio & Jelassi (2021) 
 
Defazio, A. and Jelassi, S.

 
 Adaptivity without Compromise: A Momentumized, Adaptive, Dual
Averaged Gradient Method for Stochastic Optimization. arXiv 
preprint: 2101.11075 , 2021.

 
 
 Dellaferrera et al. (2021) 
 
Dellaferrera, G., Wozniak, S., Indiveri, G., Pantazi, A., and Eleftheriou, E.

 
 Learning in Deep Neural Networks Using a Biologically Inspired
Optimizer. arXiv preprint: 
 2104.11604 , 2021.

 
 
 Devarakonda et al. (2017) 
 
Devarakonda, A., Naumov, M., and Garland, M.

 
 AdaBatch: Adaptive Batch Sizes for Training Deep Neural Networks.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1712.02029 , 2017.

 
 
 Ding et al. (2019) 
 
Ding, J., Ren, X., Luo, R., and Sun, X.

 
 An Adaptive and Momental Bound Method for Stochastic Learning.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1910.12249 , 2019.

 
 
 Dozat (2016) 
 
Dozat, T.

 
 Incorporating Nesterov Momentum into Adam.

 
 In 4th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2016.

 
 
 Dubey et al. (2020) 
 
Dubey, S. R., Chakraborty, S., Roy, S. K., Mukherjee, S., Singh, S. K., and
Chaudhuri, B. B.

 
 diffGrad: An Optimization Method for Convolutional Neural Networks.

 
 IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems ,
2020.

 
 
 Duchi et al. (2011) 
 
Duchi, J., Hazan, E., and Singer, Y.

 
 Adaptive Subgradient Methods for Online Learning and Stochastic
Optimization.

 
 Journal of Machine Learning Research, JMLR , 12, 2011.

 
 
 Eliyahu (2020) 
 
Eliyahu, Y.

 
 ADAS Optimzier.

 
 https://github.com/YanaiEliyahu/AdasOptimizer , 2020.

 
 
 Fetterman et al. (2019) 
 
Fetterman, A. J., Kim, C. H., and Albrecht, J.

 
 SoftAdam: Unifying SGD and Adam for better stochastic gradient
descent.

 
 https://openreview.net/forum?id=Skgfr1rYDH , 2019.

 
 
 Foret et al. (2021) 
 
Foret, P., Kleiner, A., Mobahi, H., and Neyshabur, B.

 
 Sharpness-aware Minimization for Efficiently Improving
Generalization.

 
 In 9th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2021.

 
 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=6Tm1mposlrM .

 
 
 Gao et al. (2020) 
 
Gao, K.-X., Liu, X.-L., Huang, Z.-H., Wang, M., Wang, S., Wang, Z., Xu, D., and
Yu, F.

 
 Eigenvalue-corrected Natural Gradient Based on a New Approximation.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2011.13609 , 2020.

 
 
 George et al. (2018) 
 
George, T., Laurent, C., Bouthillier, X., Ballas, N., and Vincent, P.

 
 Fast Approximate Natural Gradient Descent in a Kronecker Factored
Eigenbasis.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31,
NeurIPS , 2018.

 
 
 Ginsburg et al. (2019) 
 
Ginsburg, B., Castonguay, P., Hrinchuk, O., Kuchaiev, O., Lavrukhin, V., Leary,
R., Li, J., Nguyen, H., and Cohen, J. M.

 
 Stochastic Gradient Methods with Layer-wise Adaptive Moments for
Training of Deep Networks. arXiv preprint: 
 1905.11286 , 2019.

 
 
 Goldfarb et al. (2020) 
 
Goldfarb, D., Ren, Y., and Bahamou, A.

 
 Practical Quasi-Newton Methods for Training Deep Neural Networks.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33,
NeurIPS , 2020.

 
 
 Goodfellow et al. (2016) 
 
Goodfellow, I., Bengio, Y., and Courville, A.

 
 Deep Learning .

 
 MIT Press, 2016.

 
 
 Goyal et al. (2017) 
 
Goyal, P., Dollár, P., Girshick, R., Noordhuis, P., Wesolowski, L., Kyrola,
A., Tulloch, A., Jia, Y., and He, K.

 
 Accurate, Large Minibatch SGD: Training ImageNet in 1 Hour.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1706.02677 , 2017.

 
 
 Grankin (2020) 
 
Grankin, M.

 
 RangerLars.

 
 https://github.com/mgrankin/over9000 , 2020.

 
 
 Granziol et al. (2020) 
 
Granziol, D., Wan, X., and Roberts, S.

 
 Gadam: Combining Adaptivity with Iterate Averaging Gives Greater
Generalisation. arXiv preprint: 
 2003.01247 , 2020.

 
 
 Gupta et al. (2018) 
 
Gupta, V., Koren, T., and Singer, Y.

 
 Shampoo: Preconditioned Stochastic Tensor Optimization.

 
 In 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2018.

 
 
 Hayashi et al. (2018) 
 
Hayashi, H., Koushik, J., and Neubig, G.

 
 Eve: A Gradient Based Optimization Method with Locally and Globally
Adaptive Learning Rates. arXiv preprint: 
 1611.01505 , 2018.

 
 
 He et al. (2016) 
 
He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., and Sun, J.

 
 Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition.

 
 In IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition , 2016.

 
 
 Henriques et al. (2019) 
 
Henriques, J. F., Ehrhardt, S., Albanie, S., and Vedaldi, A.

 
 Small Steps and Giant Leaps: Minimal Newton Solvers for Deep
Learning.

 
 In IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision,
ICCV , 2019.

 
 
 Heo et al. (2021) 
 
Heo, B., Chun, S., Oh, S. J., Han, D., Yun, S., Uh, Y., and Ha, J.-W.

 
 AdamP: Slowing Down the Weight Norm Increase in Momentum-based
Optimizers.

 
 In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2021.

 
 
 Hosseini & Plataniotis (2020) 
 
Hosseini, M. S. and Plataniotis, K. N.

 
 AdaS: Adaptive Scheduling of Stochastic Gradients.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2006.06587 , 2020.

 
 
 Howard & Ruder (2018) 
 
Howard, J. and Ruder, S.

 
 Universal Language Model Fine-tuning for Text Classification.

 
 In 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics , 2018.

 
 
 Hu et al. (2019) 
 
Hu, Y., Lin, L., and Tang, S.

 
 Second-order Information in First-order Optimization Methods.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1912.09926 , 2019.

 
 
 Hu et al. (2020) 
 
Hu, Y., Zhang, S., Chen, X., and He, N.

 
 Biased Stochastic First-Order Methods for Conditional Stochastic
Optimization and Applications in Meta Learning.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33,
NeurIPS , 2020.

 
 
 Huang et al. (2019) 
 
Huang, H., Wang, C., and Dong, B.

 
 Nostalgic Adam: Weighting More of the Past Gradients When Designing
the Adaptive Learning Rate.

 
 In 28th International Joint Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, IJCAI , 2019.

 
 
 Huang et al. (2020) 
 
Huang, X., Zhou, H., Xu, R., Wang, Z., and Li, L.

 
 Adaptive Gradient Methods Can Be Provably Faster than SGD after
Finite Epochs. arXiv preprint: 
 2006.07037 , 2020.

 
 
 Ida et al. (2017) 
 
Ida, Y., Fujiwara, Y., and Iwamura, S.

 
 Adaptive Learning Rate via Covariance Matrix Based Preconditioning
for Deep Neural Networks.

 
 In 26th International Joint Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, IJCAI , 2017.

 
 
 Ilboudo et al. (2020) 
 
Ilboudo, W. E. L., Kobayashi, T., and Sugimoto, K.

 
 TAdam: A Robust Stochastic Gradient Optimizer. arXiv 
preprint: 2003.00179 , 2020.

 
 
 Jiang et al. (2019) 
 
Jiang, Z., Balu, A., Tan, S. Y., Lee, Y. M., Hegde, C., and Sarkar, S.

 
 On Higher-order Moments in Adam. arXiv preprint: 
 1910.06878 , 2019.

 
 
 Jin et al. (2021) 
 
Jin, Y., Zhou, T., Zhao, L., Zhu, Y., Guo, C., Canini, M., and Krishnamurthy,
A.

 
 AutoLRS: Automatic Learning-Rate Schedule by Bayesian Optimization
on the Fly.

 
 In 9th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2021.

 
 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=SlrqM9_lyju .

 
 
 Johnson et al. (2020) 
 
Johnson, T. B., Agrawal, P., Gu, H., and Guestrin, C.

 
 AdaScale SGD: A User-Friendly Algorithm for Distributed Training.

 
 In 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2020.

 
 
 Kafka & Wilke (2019) 
 
Kafka, D. and Wilke, D.

 
 Gradient-only line searches: An Alternative to Probabilistic Line
Searches. arXiv preprint: 
 1903.09383 , 2019.

 
 
 Kelterborn et al. (2020) 
 
Kelterborn, C., Mazur, M., and Petrenko, B. V.

 
 Gravilon: Applications of a New Gradient Descent Method to Machine
Learning. arXiv preprint: 
 2008.11370 , 2020.

 
 
 Keskar & Socher (2017) 
 
Keskar, N. S. and Socher, R.

 
 Improving Generalization Performance by Switching from Adam to SGD.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1712.07628 , 2017.

 
 
 Khan et al. (2018) 
 
Khan, M. E., Nielsen, D., Tangkaratt, V., Lin, W., Gal, Y., and Srivastava, A.

 
 Fast and Scalable Bayesian Deep Learning by Weight-Perturbation in
Adam.

 
 In 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2018.

 
 
 Kingma & Ba (2015) 
 
Kingma, D. P. and Ba, J.

 
 Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization.

 
 In 3rd International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2015.

 
 
 Kwon et al. (2021) 
 
Kwon, J., Kim, J., Park, H., and Choi, I. K.

 
 ASAM: Adaptive Sharpness-Aware Minimization for Scale-Invariant
Learning of Deep Neural Networks. arXiv preprint: 
 2102.11600 , 2021.

 
 
 Landro et al. (2020) 
 
Landro, N., Gallo, I., and Grassa, R. L.

 
 Mixing ADAM and SGD: a Combined Optimization Method.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2011.08042 , 2020.

 
 
 Levy et al. (2018) 
 
Levy, K. Y., Yurtsever, A., and Cevher, V.

 
 Online Adaptive Methods, Universality and Acceleration.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31,
NeurIPS , 2018.

 
 
 Li et al. (2020a) 
 
Li, W., Zhang, Z., Wang, X., and Luo, P.

 
 AdaX: Adaptive Gradient Descent with Exponential Long Term Memory.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2004.09740 ,
2020a.

 
 
 Li et al. (2020b) 
 
Li, Z., Bao, H., Zhang, X., and Richtárik, P.

 
 PAGE: A Simple and Optimal Probabilistic Gradient Estimator for
Nonconvex Optimization. arXiv preprint: 
 2008.10898 ,
2020b.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2021a) 
 
Liu, G.-H., Chen, T., and Theodorou, E. A.

 
 Dynamic game theoretic neural optimizer. arXiv 
preprint: 2105.03788 , 2021a.

 
 
 Liu & Tian (2020) 
 
Liu, H. and Tian, X.

 
 AEGD: Adaptive Gradient Decent with Energy. arXiv 
preprint: 2010.05109 , 2020.

 
 
 Liu & Luo (2020) 
 
Liu, L. and Luo, X.

 
 A New Accelerated Stochastic Gradient Method with Momentum.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2006.00423 , 2020.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2020a) 
 
Liu, L., Jiang, H., He, P., Chen, W., Liu, X., Gao, J., and Han, J.

 
 On the Variance of the Adaptive Learning Rate and Beyond.

 
 In 8th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2020a.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2020b) 
 
Liu, M., Zhang, W., Orabona, F., and Yang, T.

 
 Adam : A Stochastic Method with Adaptive Variance Reduction.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2011.11985 ,
2020b.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2020c) 
 
Liu, R., Wu, T., and Mozafari, B.

 
 Adam with Bandit Sampling for Deep Learning.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33,
NeurIPS , 2020c.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2021b) 
 
Liu, Y., Bernstein, J., Meister, M., and Yue, Y.

 
 Learning by Turning: Neural Architecture Aware Optimisation,
 arXiv:2102.07227 , 2021b.

 
 
 Loshchilov & Hutter (2017) 
 
Loshchilov, I. and Hutter, F.

 
 SGDR: Stochastic Gradient Descent with Warm Restarts.

 
 In 5th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2017.

 
 
 Loshchilov & Hutter (2019) 
 
Loshchilov, I. and Hutter, F.

 
 Decoupled weight decay regularization.

 
 In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2019.

 
 
 Luo et al. (2019) 
 
Luo, L., Xiong, Y., Liu, Y., and Sun, X.

 
 Adaptive Gradient Methods with Dynamic Bound of Learning Rate.

 
 In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2019.

 
 
 Ma & Yarats (2019) 
 
Ma, J. and Yarats, D.

 
 Quasi-hyperbolic momentum and Adam for deep learning.

 
 In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2019.

 
 
 Mahsereci & Hennig (2017) 
 
Mahsereci, M. and Hennig, P.

 
 Probabilistic Line Searches for Stochastic Optimization.

 
 In Journal of Machine Learning Research, JMLR , volume 18,
2017.

 
 
 Malkiel & Wolf (2020) 
 
Malkiel, I. and Wolf, L.

 
 MTAdam: Automatic Balancing of Multiple Training Loss Terms.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2006.14683 , 2020.

 
 
 Martens & Grosse (2015) 
 
Martens, J. and Grosse, R.

 
 Optimizing Neural Networks with Kronecker-Factored Approximate
Curvature.

 
 In 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2015.

 
 
 Mukkamala & Hein (2017) 
 
Mukkamala, M. C. and Hein, M.

 
 Variants of RMSProp and Adagrad with Logarithmic Regret Bounds.

 
 In 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2017.

 
 
 Mutschler & Zell (2020) 
 
Mutschler, M. and Zell, A.

 
 Parabolic Approximation Line Search for DNNs.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33,
NeurIPS , 2020.

 
 
 Nazari et al. (2019) 
 
Nazari, P., Tarzanagh, D. A., and Michailidis, G.

 
 DADAM: A Consensus-based Distributed Adaptive Gradient Method for
Online Optimization. arXiv preprint: 
 1901.09109 , 2019.

 
 
 Nesterov (1983) 
 
Nesterov, Y.

 
 A method for solving the convex programming problem with convergence
rate .

 
 Soviet Mathematics Doklady , 27, 1983.

 
 
 Orabona & Pál (2015) 
 
Orabona, F. and Pál, D.

 
 Scale-Free Algorithms for Online Linear Optimization.

 
 In Algorithmic Learning Theory - 26th International Conference,
ALT , 2015.

 
 
 Orvieto et al. (2019) 
 
Orvieto, A., Köhler, J., and Lucchi, A.

 
 The Role of Memory in Stochastic Optimization.

 
 In 35th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence,
UAI , 2019.

 
 
 Polyak (1964) 
 
Polyak, B. T.

 
 Some methods of speeding up the convergence of iteration methods.

 
 USSR Computational Mathematics and Mathematical Physics ,
4(5), 1964.

 
 
 Preechakul & Kijsirikul (2019) 
 
Preechakul, K. and Kijsirikul, B.

 
 CProp: Adaptive Learning Rate Scaling from Past Gradient
Conformity. arXiv preprint: 
 1912.11493 , 2019.

 
 
 Purkayastha & Purkayastha (2020) 
 
Purkayastha, S. and Purkayastha, S.

 
 A Variant of Gradient Descent Algorithm Based on Gradient
Averaging. arXiv preprint: 
 2012.02387 , 2020.

 
 
 Ramezani-Kebrya et al. (2021) 
 
Ramezani-Kebrya, A., Khisti, A., and Liang, B.

 
 On the Generalization of Stochastic Gradient Descent with Momentum.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2102.13653 , 2021.

 
 
 Reddi et al. (2018) 
 
Reddi, S. J., Kale, S., and Kumar, S.

 
 On the Convergence of Adam and Beyond.

 
 In 6th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2018.

 
 
 Ren & Goldfarb (2021) 
 
Ren, Y. and Goldfarb, D.

 
 Kronecker-factored Quasi-Newton Methods for Convolutional Neural
Networks. arXiv preprint: 
 2102.06737 , 2021.

 
 
 Robbins & Monro (1951) 
 
Robbins, H. and Monro, S.

 
 A Stochastic Approximation Method.

 
 The Annals of Mathematical Statistics , 22(3), 1951.

 
 
 Rolínek & Martius (2018) 
 
Rolínek, M. and Martius, G.

 
 L4: Practical loss-based stepsize adaptation for deep learning.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31,
NeurIPS , 2018.

 
 
 Roy et al. (2021) 
 
Roy, S. K., Paoletti, M. E., Haut, J. M., Dubey, S. R., Kar, P., Plaza, A., and
Chaudhuri, B. B.

 
 AngularGrad: A New Optimization Technique for Angular Convergence of
Convolutional Neural Networks. arXiv preprint: 
 2105.10190 , 2021.

 
 
 Salas et al. (2018) 
 
Salas, A., Kessler, S., Zohren, S., and Roberts, S.

 
 Practical Bayesian Learning of Neural Networks via Adaptive
Subgradient Methods. arXiv preprint: 
 1811.03679 , 2018.

 
 
 Savarese et al. (2019) 
 
Savarese, P., McAllester, D., Babu, S., and Maire, M.

 
 Domain-independent Dominance of Adaptive Methods.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1912.01823 , 2019.

 
 
 Schaul & LeCun (2013) 
 
Schaul, T. and LeCun, Y.

 
 Adaptive learning rates and parallelization for stochastic, sparse,
non-smooth gradients.

 
 In 1st International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2013.

 
 
 Schaul et al. (2013) 
 
Schaul, T., Zhang, S., and LeCun, Y.

 
 No more pesky learning rates.

 
 In 30th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2013.

 
 
 Shang et al. (2020) 
 
Shang, F., Zhou, K., Liu, H., Cheng, J., Tsang, I. W., Zhang, L., Tao, D., and
Jiao, L.

 
 VR-SGD: A Simple Stochastic Variance Reduction Method for Machine
Learning.

 
 IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. , 32(1), 2020.

 
 
 Shazeer & Stern (2018) 
 
Shazeer, N. and Stern, M.

 
 Adafactor: Adaptive Learning Rates with Sublinear Memory Cost.

 
 In 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2018.

 
 
 Smith (2017) 
 
Smith, L. N.

 
 Cyclical Learning Rates for Training Neural Networks.

 
 In IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision,
WACV , 2017.

 
 
 Smith & Topin (2017) 
 
Smith, L. N. and Topin, N.

 
 Super-Convergence: Very Fast Training of Neural Networks Using Large
Learning Rates. arXiv preprint: 
 1708.07120 , 2017.

 
 
 Sun et al. (2019) 
 
Sun, H., Gu, L., and Sun, B.

 
 Adathm: Adaptive Gradient Method Based on Estimates of Third-Order
Moments.

 
 In 4th IEEE International Conference on Data Science in
Cyberspace, DSC , 2019.

 
 
 Sung et al. (2020) 
 
Sung, W., Choi, I., Park, J., Choi, S., and Shin, S.

 
 S-SGD: Symmetrical Stochastic Gradient Descent with Weight Noise
Injection for Reaching Flat Minima. arXiv preprint: 
 2009.02479 , 2020.

 
 
 Tan et al. (2016) 
 
Tan, C., Ma, S., Dai, Y., and Qian, Y.

 
 Barzilai-Borwein Step Size for Stochastic Gradient Descent.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 29, NIPS ,
2016.

 
 
 Tao et al. (2019) 
 
Tao, Z., Xia, Q., and Li, Q.

 
 A new perspective in understanding of Adam-Type algorithms and
beyond.

 
 https://openreview.net/forum?id=SyxM51BYPB , 2019.

 
 
 Teixeira et al. (2019) 
 
Teixeira, B., Tamersoy, B., Singh, V., and Kapoor, A.

 
 Adaloss: Adaptive Loss Function for Landmark Localization.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1908.01070 , 2019.

 
 
 Tieleman & Hinton (2012) 
 
Tieleman, T. and Hinton, G.

 
 Lecture 6.5—RMSProp: Divide the gradient by a running average of
its recent magnitude, 2012.

 
 
 Tong et al. (2019) 
 
Tong, Q., Liang, G., and Bi, J.

 
 Calibrating the Adaptive Learning Rate to Improve Convergence of
ADAM. arXiv preprint: 
 1908.00700 , 2019.

 
 
 Tran & Cutkosky (2021) 
 
Tran, H. and Cutkosky, A.

 
 Correcting Momentum with Second-order Information.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2103.03265 , 2021.

 
 
 Tran & Phong (2019) 
 
Tran, P. T. and Phong, L. T.

 
 On the Convergence Proof of AMSGrad and a New Version.

 
 IEEE Access , 7, 2019.

 
 
 Tran et al. (2020) 
 
Tran, T. H., Nguyen, L. M., and Tran-Dinh, Q.

 
 Shuffling Gradient-Based Methods with Momentum. arXiv 
preprint: 2011.11884 , 2020.

 
 
 Tutunov et al. (2020) 
 
Tutunov, R., Li, M., Cowen-Rivers, A. I., Wang, J., and Bou-Ammar, H.

 
 Compositional ADAM: An Adaptive Compositional Solver.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2002.03755 , 2020.

 
 
 Vaswani et al. (2017) 
 
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A. N.,
Kaiser, Ł., and Polosukhin, I.

 
 Attention Is All You Need.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 30, NIPS ,
2017.

 
 
 Vaswani et al. (2019) 
 
Vaswani, S., Mishkin, A., Laradji, I. H., Schmidt, M., Gidel, G., and
Lacoste-Julien, S.

 
 Painless Stochastic Gradient: Interpolation, Line-Search, and
Convergence Rates.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32,
NeurIPS , 2019.

 
 
 Vogels et al. (2019) 
 
Vogels, T., Karimireddy, S. P., and Jaggi, M.

 
 PowerSGD: Practical Low-Rank Gradient Compression for Distributed
Optimization.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32,
NeurIPS , 2019.

 
 
 Wang & Ye (2020) 
 
Wang, B. and Ye, Q.

 
 Stochastic Gradient Descent with Nonlinear Conjugate Gradient-Style
Adaptive Momentum. arXiv preprint: 
 2012.02188 , 2020.

 
 
 Wang et al. (2020a) 
 
Wang, B., Nguyen, T. M., Bertozzi, A. L., Baraniuk, R. G., and Osher, S. J.

 
 Scheduled Restart Momentum for Accelerated Stochastic Gradient
Descent. arXiv preprint: 
 2002.10583 ,
2020a.

 
 
 Wang et al. (2019a) 
 
Wang, D., Liu, Y., Tang, W., Shang, F., Liu, H., Sun, Q., and Jiao, L.

 
 signADAM++: Learning Confidences for Deep Neural Networks.

 
 In International Conference on Data Mining Workshops, ICDM ,
2019a.

 
 
 Wang et al. (2020b) 
 
Wang, G., Lu, S., Cheng, Q., Tu, W., and Zhang, L.

 
 SAdam: A Variant of Adam for Strongly Convex Functions.

 
 In 8th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2020b.

 
 
 Wang & Wiens (2020) 
 
Wang, J. and Wiens, J.

 
 AdaSGD: Bridging the gap between SGD and Adam. arXiv 
preprint: 2006.16541 , 2020.

 
 
 Wang et al. (2019b) 
 
Wang, S., Sun, J., and Xu, Z.

 
 HyperAdam: A Learnable Task-Adaptive Adam for Network Training.

 
 In 33rd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI ,
2019b.

 
 
 Wright (2020a) 
 
Wright, L.

 
 Deep Memory.

 
 https://github.com/lessw2020/Best-Deep-Learning-Optimizers/tree/master/DeepMemory ,
2020a.

 
 
 Wright (2020b) 
 
Wright, L.

 
 Ranger.

 
 https://github.com/lessw2020/Ranger-Deep-Learning-Optimizer ,
2020b.

 
 
 Wu et al. (2018) 
 
Wu, X., Ward, R., and Bottou, L.

 
 WNGrad: Learn the Learning Rate in Gradient Descent.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1803.02865 , 2018.

 
 
 Xie et al. (2019) 
 
Xie, C., Koyejo, O., Gupta, I., and Lin, H.

 
 Local AdaAlter: Communication-Efficient Stochastic Gradient Descent
with Adaptive Learning Rates. arXiv preprint: 
 1911.09030 , 2019.

 
 
 Xie et al. (2020) 
 
Xie, Z., Wang, X., Zhang, H., Sato, I., and Sugiyama, M.

 
 Adai: Separating the Effects of Adaptive Learning Rate and Momentum
Inertia. arXiv preprint: 
 2006.15815 , 2020.

 
 
 Xing et al. (2018) 
 
Xing, C., Arpit, D., Tsirigotis, C., and Bengio, Y.

 
 A Walk with SGD. arXiv preprint: 
 1802.08770 , 2018.

 
 
 Xu (2020) 
 
Xu, Y.

 
 Momentum-based variance-reduced proximal stochastic gradient method
for composite nonconvex stochastic optimization. arXiv 
preprint: 2006.00425 , 2020.

 
 
 Yang et al. (2020) 
 
Yang, M., Xu, D., Li, Y., Wen, Z., and Chen, M.

 
 Structured Stochastic Quasi-Newton Methods for Large-Scale
Optimization Problems. arXiv preprint: 
 2006.09606 , 2020.

 
 
 Yao et al. (2020) 
 
Yao, Z., Gholami, A., Shen, S., Keutzer, K., and Mahoney, M. W.

 
 ADAHESSIAN: An Adaptive Second Order Optimizer for Machine
Learning. arXiv preprint: 
 2006.00719 , 2020.

 
 
 You et al. (2017) 
 
You, Y., Gitman, I., and Ginsburg, B.

 
 Large Batch Training of Convolutional Networks. arXiv 
preprint: 1708.03888 , 2017.

 
 
 You et al. (2020) 
 
You, Y., Li, J., Reddi, S., Hseu, J., Kumar, S., Bhojanapalli, S., Song, X.,
Demmel, J., Keutzer, K., and Hsieh, C.-J.

 
 Large Batch Optimization for Deep Learning: Training BERT in 76
minutes.

 
 In 8th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2020.

 
 
 Yuan & Gao (2020) 
 
Yuan, W. and Gao, K.-X.

 
 EAdam Optimizer: How Impact Adam. arXiv 
preprint: 2011.02150 , 2020.

 
 
 Yue et al. (2020) 
 
Yue, X., Nouiehed, M., and Kontar, R. A.

 
 SALR: Sharpness-aware Learning Rates for Improved Generalization.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2011.05348 , 2020.

 
 
 Yun et al. (2019) 
 
Yun, J., Lozano, A. C., and Yang, E.

 
 Stochastic Gradient Methods with Block Diagonal Matrix Adaptation.
 arXiv preprint: 
 1905.10757 , 2019.

 
 
 Zaheer et al. (2018) 
 
Zaheer, M., Reddi, S. J., Sachan, D. S., Kale, S., and Kumar, S.

 
 Adaptive Methods for Nonconvex Optimization.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31,
NeurIPS , 2018.

 
 
 Zeiler (2012) 
 
Zeiler, M. D.

 
 ADADELTA: An Adaptive Learning Rate Method. arXiv 
preprint: 1212.5701 , 2012.

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2018) 
 
Zhang, G., Sun, S., Duvenaud, D., and Grosse, R.

 
 Noisy Natural Gradient as Variational Inference.

 
 In 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2018.

 
 
 Zhang & Gouza (2018) 
 
Zhang, J. and Gouza, F. B.

 
 GADAM: Genetic-Evolutionary ADAM for Deep Neural Network
Optimization. arXiv preprint: 
 1805.07500 , 2018.

 
 
 Zhang & Mitliagkas (2019) 
 
Zhang, J. and Mitliagkas, I.

 
 YellowFin and the Art of Momentum Tuning.

 
 In Machine Learning and Systems, MLSys , 2019.

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2020) 
 
Zhang, J., Karimireddy, S. P., Veit, A., Kim, S., Reddi, S. J., Kumar, S., and
Sra, S.

 
 Why are adaptive methods good for attention models?

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33,
NeurIPS , 2020.

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2019) 
 
Zhang, M. R., Lucas, J., Hinton, G., and Ba, J.

 
 Lookahead Optimizer: k steps forward, 1 step back.

 
 Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32, NeurIPS ,
2019.

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2017a) 
 
Zhang, Z., Ma, L., Li, Z., and Wu, C.

 
 Normalized Direction-preserving Adam. arXiv preprint: 
 1709.04546 ,
2017a.

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2017b) 
 
Zhang, Z., Wu, Y., and Wang, G.

 
 BPGrad: Towards Global Optimality in Deep Learning via Branch and
Pruning. arXiv preprint: 
 1711.06959 ,
2017b.

 
 
 Zhao et al. (2020) 
 
Zhao, S.-Y., Xie, Y.-P., and Li, W.-J.

 
 Stochastic Normalized Gradient Descent with Momentum for Large Batch
Training. arXiv preprint: 
 2007.13985 , 2020.

 
 
 Zhou et al. (2020) 
 
Zhou, B., Zheng, X., and Gao, J.

 
 On the Trend-corrected Variant of Adaptive Stochastic Optimization
Methods.

 
 In International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN ,
2020.

 
 
 Zhou et al. (2021a) 
 
Zhou, Y., Huang, K., Cheng, C., Wang, X., and Liu, X.

 
 FastAdaBelief: Improving Convergence Rate for Belief-based Adaptive
Optimizer by Strong Convexity. arXiv preprint: 
 2104.13790 ,
2021a.

 
 
 Zhou et al. (2021b) 
 
Zhou, Y., Li, X., and Banerjee, A.

 
 Noisy Truncated SGD: Optimization and Generalization.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2103.00075 ,
2021b.

 
 
 Zhou et al. (2019) 
 
Zhou, Z., Zhang, Q., Lu, G., Wang, H., Zhang, W., and Yu, Y.

 
 AdaShift: Decorrelation and Convergence of Adaptive Learning Rate
Methods.

 
 In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR , 2019.

 
 
 Zhuang et al. (2020) 
 
Zhuang, J., Tang, T., Ding, Y., Tatikonda, S., Dvornek, N., Papademetris, X.,
and Duncan, J. S.

 
 AdaBelief Optimizer: Adapting Stepsizes by the Belief in Observed
Gradients.

 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33,
NeurIPS , 2020.

 
 
 Ziyin et al. (2020) 
 
Ziyin, L., Wang, Z. T., and Ueda, M.

 
 LaProp: a Better Way to Combine Momentum with Adaptive Gradient.
 arXiv preprint: 
 2002.04839 , 2020.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
