 
 
 
 The Ladder: A Reliable Leaderboard forMachine Learning Competitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 
 1.1 Our Contributions 
 1.2 Related Work 
 1.3 Preliminaries 
 
 2 Sequential and Adaptive Loss Estimation 
 
 2.1 Leaderboard Accuracy 
 
 3 The Ladder Mechanism 
 
 3.1 A lower bound on leaderboard accuracy 
 
 4 A parameter-free Ladder mechanism 
 
 4.1 Remark on the interpretation of the significance test 
 
 5 The boosting attack 
 
 5.1 Experiments with the boosting attack 
 
 6 Experiments on real Kaggle data 
 
 6.1 Statistical significance analysis 
 
 7 Conclusion 
 References 
 A Kaggle reference mechanism 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: arXiv.org perpetual non-exclusive license
 
 
arXiv:1502.04585v1 [cs.LG] 16 Feb 2015 
 
 
 The Ladder: A Reliable Leaderboard for
 Machine Learning Competitions 
 
 
 Avrim Blum
 
    
 Moritz Hardt
 

 Abstract 
 
 The organizer of a machine learning competition faces the problem of
maintaining an accurate leaderboard that faithfully represents the quality of the
best submission of each competing team. What makes this estimation problem
particularly challenging is its sequential and adaptive nature. As
participants are allowed to repeatedly evaluate their submissions on the
leaderboard, they may begin to overfit to the holdout data that supports the
leaderboard. Few theoretical results give actionable advice on how to
design a reliable leaderboard. Existing approaches therefore often resort to
poorly understood heuristics such as limiting the bit precision of answers and
the rate of re-submission. 
 
 In this work, we introduce a notion of leaderboard accuracy tailored to
the format of a competition. We introduce a natural algorithm called the Ladder 
and demonstrate that it simultaneously supports strong theoretical guarantees in a
fully adaptive model of estimation, withstands practical adversarial attacks, and
achieves high utility on real submission files from an actual competition hosted by
Kaggle. 
 
 Notably, we are able to sidestep a powerful recent hardness result for
adaptive risk estimation that rules out algorithms such as ours under a
seemingly very similar notion of accuracy. On a practical note, we provide a
completely parameter-free variant of our algorithm that can be
deployed in a real competition with no tuning required whatsoever. 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 

 
 Machine learning competitions have become an extremely popular format for
solving prediction and classification problems of all kinds. A number of
companies such as Netflix have organized major competitions in the past and some
start-ups like Kaggle specialize in hosting machine learning competitions. In
a typical competition hundreds of participants will compete for prize money by
repeatedly submitting classifiers to the host in an attempt to improve on their
previously best score. The score reflects the performance of the classifier on
some subset of the data, which are typically partitioned into two sets: a
training set and a test set. The training set is publicly available with both
the individual instances and their corresponding class labels. The test set is
publicly available as well, but the class labels are withheld. Predicting these
missing class labels is the goal of the participant and a valid submission is simply
a list of labels—one for each point in the test set. 
 
 
 The central component of any competition is the leaderboard which ranks all
teams in the competition by the score of their best submission. This leads to
the fundamental problem of maintaining a leaderboard that accurately reflects
the true strength of a classifier. What makes this problem so challenging is
that participants may begin to incorporate the feedback from the leaderboard into
the design of their classifier thus creating a dependence between the
classifier and the data on which it is evaluated. In such cases, it is well
known that the holdout set no longer gives an unbiased estimate of the
classifier’s true performance. To counteract this problem, existing solutions
such as the one used by Kaggle further partition the test set into two parts.
One part of the test set is used for computing scores on the public
leaderboard. The other is used to rank all submissions after the competition
ended. This final ranking is often referred to as the private
leaderboard . While this solution increases the quality of the private
leaderboard, it does not address the problem of maintaining accuracy on the
public leaderboard. Indeed, numerous posts on the forums of Kaggle report on
the problem of “overfitting to the holdout” meaning that some scores on the
public leaderboard are inflated compared to final scores. To mitigate this
problem Kaggle primarily restricts the rate of re-submission and to some extent
the numerical precision of the released scores. 
 
 
 Yet, in spite of its obvious importance, there is relatively little theory on how to
design a leaderboard with rigorous quality guarantees. Basic questions remain
difficult to assess, such as, can we a priori quantify how accurate existing
leaderboard mechanisms are and can we design better methods? 
 
 
 While the theory of estimating the true loss of a classifier or set of classifiers
from a finite
sample is decades old, much of theory breaks down due to the sequential 
and adaptive nature of the estimation problem that arises when
maintaining a leaderboard. First of all, there is no a priori understanding of
which learning algorithms are going to be used, the complexity of the
classifiers they are producing, and how many submissions there
are going to be. Indeed, submissions are just a list of labels and do not even
specify how these labels were obtained. Second, any submission might
incorporate statistical information about the withheld class labels that was
revealed by the score of previous submissions. In such cases, the public
leaderboard may no longer provide an unbiased estimate of the true score.
To make matters worse, very recent results suggest that maintaining accurate
estimates on a sequence of many adaptively chosen classifiers may be
computationally intractable  [ HU , SU ] . 
 
 
 1.1 Our Contributions 

 
 We introduce a notion of accuracy called leaderboard accuracy tailored
to the format of a competition. Intuitively, high leaderboard accuracy
entails that each score represented on the leaderboard is close to the true
score of the corresponding classifier on the unknown distribution from which
the data were drawn. Our primary theoretical contributions are the following. 
 
 
 
 1. 
 
 We show that there is a simple and natural algorithm we call Ladder that achieves
high leaderboard accuracy in a fully adaptive model of estimation in which we place no
restrictions on the data analyst whatsoever. In fact, we don’t even limit the
number of submissions an analyst can make. Formally, our worst-case upper bound shows
that if we normalize scores to be in the maximum error of our
algorithm on any estimate is never worse than where 
is the number of submissions and is the size of the data used to compute
the leaderboard. In contrast, we observe that the error of the Kaggle mechanism
(and similar solutions) scales with the number of submissions as so that
our algorithm features an exponential improvement in . 
 
 2. 
 
 We also prove an information-theoretic lower bound on the leaderboard accuracy
demonstrating that no estimator can achieve error smaller than
 
 
 
 
 
 Complementing our theoretical worst-case upper bound and lower bound, we make
a number of practical contributions: 
 
 
 
 1. 
 
 We provide a parameter-free variant of our algorithm that can be
deployed in a real competition with no tuning required whatsoever. 
 
 2. 
 
 To demonstrate the strength of our parameter-free algorithm we conduct two
opposing experiments. The first is an adversarial—yet practical—attack on the
leaderboard that aims to create as much of a bias as possible with a given
number of submissions. We compare the performance of the Kaggle mechanism to
that of the Ladder mechanism under this attack. We observe that the accuracy
of the Kaggle mechanism diminishes rapidly with the number of submissions,
while our algorithm encounters only a small bias in its estimates. 
 
 3. 
 
 In a second experiment, we evaluate our algorithm on real submission
files from a Kaggle competition. The data set presents a difficult benchmark
as little overfitting occurred and the errors of the Kaggle leaderboard were
generally within the expected statistical deviations given the properties of the
data set. Even on this benchmark our algorithm produced a
leaderboard that is very close to that computed by Kaggle. Through a sequence
of significance tests we assess that the differences between the two
leaderboards on this competition are not statistically significant. 
 
 
 
 
 In summary, our algorithm supports strong theoretical results while suggesting
a simple and practical solution. Importantly, it is one and the same
parameter-free algorithm that withstands our adversarial attack and
simultaneously achieves high utility in a real Kaggle competition. 
 
 
 An important aspect of our algorithm is that it only releases a score to the
participant if the score presents a statistically significant improvement over
the previously best submission of the participant. Intuitively, this prevents
the participant from exploiting or overfitting to minor fluctuations in the
observed score values. 
 
 
 
 1.2 Related Work 

 
 There is a vast literature on preventing overfitting in the context of model
assessment and selection. See, for example, Chapter 7 of  [ HTF ] 
for background. Two particularly popular practical approaches are various
forms of cross-validation and bootstrapping. It is important to note though that when
scoring a submission for the leaderboard, neither of these techniques applies.
One problem is that participants submit only a list of labels and not the
corresponding learning algorithms. In particular, the organizer of the competition has
no means of retraining the model on a different split of the data. Similarly,
the natural bootstrap estimate of the expected loss of a classifier given a
finite sample is simply the empirical average of the loss on the finite sample,
which is what existing solutions release anyway. The other substantial
obstacle is that even if these methods applied, their theoretical guarantees
in the adaptive setting of estimation are largely not understood. 
 
 
 A highly relevant recent work  [ DFH+ ] , that inspired us,
studies a more general question: Given a sequence of adaptively chosen bounded functions
 over a domain  estimate
the expectations of these function  over an unknown distribution
 given samples from this distribution. If we think of each function
as expressing the loss of one classifier submitted to the leaderboard, then
such an algorithm could in principle be used in our setting. The main result
of  [ DFH+ ] is an algorithm that achieves maximum error 
 
 This bound readily implies
a corresponding result for leaderboard accuracy albeit worse than the one we show.
One issue is that this algorithm requires the
entire test set to be withheld and not just the labels as is required in the Kaggle
application. The bigger obstacle is that the algorithm is unfortunately not
computationally efficient and this is inherent.
In fact, no computationally efficient algorithm can give non-trivial error on
 adaptively chosen functions as was shown
recently  [ HU , SU ] under a standard computational hardness assumption. 
 
 
 Matching this hardness result, there is a computationally efficient algorithm
in  [ DFH+ ] that achieves an error bound of
 which implies a bound on leaderboard
accuracy that is worse than ours for all They also give an
algorithm (called EffectiveRounds) with accuracy when the
number of “rounds of adaptivity” is at most  While we do not have a
bound on in our setting better than 
 1 
 
 
 
 The parameter 
corresponds to
the depth of the adaptive tree we define in the proof of Theorem  3.1 .
While we bound the size of the tree, the depth could be as large as , the proof technique relies on sample
splitting and a similar argument could be used to prove our upper bound. However, our
argument does not require sample splitting and this is very important for the
practical applicability of the algorithm. 
 
 
 We sidestep the hardness result by going to
a more specialized notion of accuracy that is surprisingly still sufficient
for the leaderboard application. However, it does not resolve the more general
question raised in  [ DFH+ ] . In particular, we do not always provide a
loss estimate for each submitted classifier, but only for those that made a
significant improvement over the previous best. This seemingly innocuous
change is enough to circumvent the aforementioned hardness results. 
 
 
 
 Acknowledgments 

 
 We thank Ben Hamner at Kaggle Inc., for providing us with the submission files
from the Photo Quality competition, as well as many helpful discussions. We
are grateful to Aaron Roth for pointing out an argument similar to that
appearing in the proof of Theorem  3.1 in a different context. We
thank John Duchi for many stimulating discussions. 
 
 
 
 1.3 Preliminaries 

 
 Let be a data domain and be a finite set of class labels, e.g.,
 and 
Rather than speaking of the score of a classifier we will use the term
 loss with the understanding that smaller is better. A loss function is
a mapping of the form and a classifier is a
mapping 
A standard loss function is the -loss defined as if 
and otherwise. 
 
 
 We assume that we are given a sample drawn i.i.d. from an
unknown distribution over 
We define the empirical loss of a classifier on the sample as 
 
 The true loss is defined as 
 
 Throughout this paper we assume that consists of 
i.i.d. draws from  and is a loss function with bounded range. 
 
 
 
 
 2 Sequential and Adaptive Loss Estimation 

 
 In this section we formally define the adaptive model of estimation that we
work in and present our definition of leaderboard accuracy . Given a
sequence of classifiers and a finite sample  of size a
fundamental estimation problem is to compute estimates such
that 
 
 The standard way of estimating the true loss is via the empirical loss. If we
assume that all functions are fixed independently of the
sample , then Hoeffding’s bound and the union bound imply 
 
 In the adaptive setting, however, we assume that the classifier may be
chosen as a function of
the previous estimates and the previously chosen classifiers. Formally, there
exists a mapping such that for all 
 
 We will assume for simplicity that is a
deterministic algorithm. The tuple is nevertheless
a random variable due to the random sample used to compute the estimates. 
 
 
 Unfortunately, in the case where the choice of depends on previous
estimates, we may no longer apply Hoeffding’s bound to control .
In fact, recent work  [ HU , SU ] shows that no computationally efficient
estimator can achieve error on more than adaptively chosen
functions (under a standard hardness assumption). Since we’re primarily interested in
a computationally efficient algorithm, these hardness results demonstrate that
the goal of achieving the accuracy guarantee specified in
inequality ( 1 ) is too stringent in the adaptive setting when is
large. We will therefore introduce a weaker notion of accuracy called
 leaderboard accuracy under which we can circumvent the hardness results
and nevertheless achieve a guarantee strong enough for our application. 
 
 
 2.1 Leaderboard Accuracy 

 
 The goal of an accurate leaderboard is to guarantee that at each step the leaderboard accurately reflects the best classifier among
those classifiers submitted so far. In other words, while we do not
need an accurate estimate for each we wish to maintain that the -th
estimate correctly reflects the minimum loss achieved by any classifier
so far. This leads to the following definition. 
 
 
 Definition 2.1 . 
 
 Given an adaptively chosen sequence of classifiers 
we define the leaderboard error of estimates 
as 
 
 
 
 
 Given an algorithm that achieves high leaderboard accuracy there are two
simple ways to extend it to provide a full leaderboard: 
 
 1. 
 
 Use one instance of the algorithm for each team to maintain the best
score achieved by each team. 
 
 2. 
 
 Use one instance of the algorithm for each rank on the leaderboard. When
a new submission comes in, evaluate it against each instance in descending order
to determine its place on the leaderboard. 
 
 
 The first variant is straightforward to implement, but requires the assumption
that competitors don’t use several accounts (a practice that is typically
against the terms of use of a competition). The second variant is more
conservative and does not need this assumption. 
 
 
 
 
 3 The Ladder Mechanism 

 
 We introduce an algorithm called the Ladder Mechanism that achieves
small leaderboard accuracy. The algorithm is very simple. For each given
function, it compares the empirical loss estimate of the function to the
previously smallest loss. If the estimate is below the previous best by some
margin, it releases the estimate and updates the best estimate. Importantly,
if the estimate is not smaller by a margin, the algorithm releases the
previous best loss (rather than the new estimate). A formal description
follows in Figure  1 . 
 
 
 
 Theorem 3.1 . 
 
 For any sequence of adaptively chosen classifiers the Ladder
Mechanism satisfies for all and 
 
 In particular, for some the Ladder Mechanism
achieves with high probability, 
 
 
 
 
 Proof. 
 
 Let be the adaptive analyst generating the function sequence. Fix The algorithm  naturally defines a rooted tree  of depth
 recursively defined as follows: 
 
 1. 
 
 The root is labeled by 
 
 2. 
 
 Each node at depth corresponds to one realization
 of the random variable
 and is labeled by
 Its children are defined by each
possible value of the output of Ladder Mechanism on the sequence
 
 
 
 
 
 Claim 3.2 . 
 
 Let Then,
 
 
 
 
 Proof. 
 
 To prove the claim, we will uniquely encode each node in the tree using 
bits of information. The claim then follows directly. The compression argument
is as follows. We use bits to specify the
depth of the node in the tree. We then specify the index of each 
for which together with the value Note that
since there can be at most many such steps. Moreover, there are at most many possible values for Hence, specifying all
such indices requires at most bits. It
is easy that this uniquely identifies each node in the graph, since for every
index not explicitly listed we know that The total number
of bits we used is: 
 
 ∎ 
 
 
 
 The theorem now follows by applying a union bound over all nodes in and
using Hoeffding’s inequality for each fixed node. Let be the set of all
functions appearing in 
 
 In particular, 
 
 Moreover, it is clear that conditioned on the event that 
 
 at step where the minimum of is attained, the Ladder
Mechanism must output an estimate which is within of
 This concludes the proof.
∎ 
 
 
 
 3.1 A lower bound on leaderboard accuracy 

 
 We next show that is a lower bound on the best possible
leaderboard accuracy that we might hope to achieve. This is true even if the
functions are not adaptively chosen but fixed ahead of time. 
 
 
 Theorem 3.3 . 
 
 There are classifiers and a bounded loss function for which we
have the minimax lower bound 
 
 Here the infimum is taken over all estimators that take samples
from a distribution and produce estimates 
The expectation is taken over samples from  
 
 
 
 Proof. 
 
 We will reduce the problem of mean estimation in a certain high-dimensional
distribution family to that of obtaining small leaderboard error.
Our lower bound then follows from lower bounds
for the corresponding mean estimation problem. 
 
 
 Let and take
the functions to be the coordinate projections for 
Let the loss function be the projection onto its first argument 
so that 
Consider the family of distributions where
 is uniform over except that the -th coordinate
satisfies for some that we
will determine later. Now, we have 
 
 Denote the mean of a distribution  by and
note that 
We claim that obtaining small leaderboard error on is at least
as hard estimating the means of an unknown distribution in 
Formally, 
 
 Indeed, let be the estimator that achieves minimax leaderboard accuracy.
Define the estimator as follows: 
 
 1. 
 
 Given compute 
 
 2. 
 
 Let be the first coordinate in the sequence 
which is less than 
 
 3. 
 
 Output the vector which is
 in the -th coordinate and everywhere else. 
 
 
 Note that the -error of is always at most
 since all means parameters in the family are
 -close in -norm.
Suppose then that and suppose
that is the unknown distribution for some 
In this case, we claim that 
Indeed, the first coordinate for which is less than
 must be  This follows from the definition of leaderboard
error and the assumption that had error on 
This establishes inequality ( 5 ). 
 
 
 Finally, it is well known and follows from Fano’s inequality that
for some 
 
 For completeness we include the argument. Let be a random index in 
and assume that is a random sample from conditional on 
Note that the set forms an
 -packing in the -norm.
Hence, by Fano’s inequality (see e.g.  [ Has , Tsy ] ), 
 
 where is the mutual information between and 
Moreover, it is known that 
 
 In the second inequality we used that the Kullback-Leibler divergence between
a Bernoulli random variable with bias and another one with bias
 is at most for all Moreover,
the Kullback-Leibler divergence of independent samples is at most 
times the divergence of a single sample.
We conclude that 
 
 Setting for small enough constant 
completes the proof.
∎ 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 A parameter-free Ladder mechanism 

 
 When applying the Ladder Mechanism in practice it can be difficult to choose a
fixed step size  ahead of time that will work throughout an entire
competition. We therefore now give a completely parameter-free version of our
algorithm that we will use in our experiments. The algorithm
adaptively finds a suitable step size based on previous submissions to the
algorithm. The idea is to perform a statistical significance test to judge
whether the given submission improves upon the previous one. The test is such
that as the best classifier gets increasingly accurate, the step size shrinks
accordingly. 
 
 
 The empirical loss of a classifier is the average of bounded numbers and
follows a very accurate normal approximation for sufficiently large so
long as the loss is not biased too much towards In our setting, the
typical loss if bounded away form so that the normal approximation is
reasonable. In order to test whether the empirical loss of one classifier is
significantly below the empirical loss of another classifier, it is
appropriate to perform a one-sided paired -test. A paired test has
substantially more statistical power in settings where the loss vectors that
are being compared are highly correlated as is common in a competition. 
 
 
 To recall the definition of the test, we denote the sample standard
deviation of an -dimensional vector vector as
 where denotes the average of
the entries in With this notation, the paired -test statistic given
two vectors and is defined as 
 
 Keeping this definition in mind, our parameter-free Ladder mechanism in Figure  2 is now
very natural. On top of the loss estimate, it also maintains the loss vector
of the previously best classifier (starting with the trivial all zeros loss
vector). 
 
 
 
 The algorithm in Figure  2 releases the estimate of up
to an error of which is significantly below the typical step size of
 Looking back at our analysis, this is not a problem
since such an estimate only reveals bits of information which is the
same up to constant factors as an estimate that is accurate to within
 The more critical quantity is the step size as it controls how
often the algorithm releases a new estimate. 
 
 
 In the following sections we will show that the parameter-free Ladder
mechanism achieves high accuracy both under a strong attack as well as on a
real Kaggle competition. 
 
 
 4.1 Remark on the interpretation of the significance test 

 
 For sufficiently large the test statistic on the left hand side
of ( 6 ) is well approximated by a Student’s -distribution with
 degrees of freedom. The test performed in our algorithm at each step
corresponds to refuting the null hypothesis roughly at the significance level. 
 
 
 It is important to note, however, that our use of this significance test is
primarily heuristic. This is because for due to the adaptive choices of
the analyst, the function may in general not be independent of the
sample  In such a case, the Student approximation is no longer valid.
Besides we apply the test many times, but do not control for multiple
comparisons. Nevertheless, the significance test is an intuitive guide for
deciding which improvements are statistically significant. 
 
 
 
 
 5 The boosting attack 

 
 In this section we describe a new canonical attack that an adversarial analyst
might perform in order to boost their ranking on the public leaderboard.
Besides being practical in some cases, the attack also serves as an analytical
tool to assess the accuracy of concrete mechanisms. 
 
 
 For simplicity we describe the attack only for the -loss although it
generalizes to other reasonable functions such as the clipped logarithmic loss
often used by Kaggle. We assume that the hidden solution is a vector
 The analyst may submit a vector and observe
(up to small enough error) the loss 
 
 The attack proceeds as follows: 
 
 1. 
 
 Pick uniformly at random. 
 
 2. 
 
 Observe loss estimates 
 
 3. 
 
 Let 
 
 4. 
 
 Output where the
majority function is applied coordinate-wise. 
 
 
 
 
 The vector corresponds to the target set of labels used for the public
leaderboard which the analyst does not know. The vectors 
represent the labels given by a sequence of classifiers. 
 
 
 The next theorem follows from a standard “boosting argument” using
properties of the majority function and the fact that each for 
has a somewhat larger than expected correlation with 
 
 
 Theorem 5.1 . 
 
 Assume that for all 
Then, the boosting attack finds a vector so
that with probability 
 
 
 
 
 The previous theorem in particular demonstrates that the Kaggle mechanism has
poor leaderboard accuracy if it is invoked with rounding parameter The currently used rounding parameter is which
satisfies this assumption for all 
 
 
 Corollary 5.2 . 
 
 There is a sequence of adaptively chosen classifiers such that
if denotes the minimum of the first loss estimates returned by the
Kaggle mechanism (as described in Figure  7 ) with accuracy where is the size of the data set, then
with probability the estimates have leaderboard error 
 
 
 
 
 5.1 Experiments with the boosting attack 

 
 Figure  3 compares the performance of the Ladder mechanism with
that of the standard Kaggle mechanism under the boosting attack. We chose
 as the total number of labels of which labels are used for determining the
public leaderboard under either mechanism. Other parameter settings lead to a similar picture,
but these settings correspond roughly to the properties of the real data set that we will analyze later.
The Kaggle mechanism gives answers that are accurate up to a rounding error of
 Note that so that the rounding error
is well below the critical level of The vector in the
description of our attack corresponds to the labels used for the public
leaderboard. Since the answers given by Kaggle only depend on these labels,
the remaining labels play no role in the attack.
Importantly, the attack does
not need to know the indices of the labels used for the public leaderboard
within the entire vector of labels. 
 
 
 The coordinates not used for the leaderboard remain unbiased random
bits throughout the attack as no information is revealed. In particular, the
final submission is completely random on those coordinates and
only biased on the other coordinates used for the leaderboard.
Therefore, once we evaluate the final submission on the test set consisting of
the remaining coordinates, the resulting loss is close to its expected
value of i.e. the expected loss of a random -vector.
What we observe, however, is that the Kaggle mechanism
gives a strongly biased estimate of the loss of . 
 
 
 The blue line in Figure  3 displays the performance of the
parameter-free version of the Ladder mechanism. Instead of
selecting all the vectors with loss at most we modified the attack to be
more effective against the Ladder Mechanism. Specifically, we selected all
those vectors that successfully lowered the score compared to the previous
best. As we have no information about the correlation of the remaining
vectors, there is no benefit in including them in the boosting step.
Even with this more effective attack, the Ladder mechanism gives a result that
is correct to within the expected maximum deviation of the score on random
vectors. The intuitive reason is that every time a vector lowers the best
score seen so far, the probability of a subsequent vector crossing the
new threshold drops off by a constant factor. In particular there cannot be
more than such steps thus creating a bias of at
most in the boosting step. 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 Experiments on real Kaggle data 

 
 To demonstrate the utility of the Ladder mechanism we turn to real submission
data from Kaggle’s ‘‘Photo Quality Prediction’’
challenge 
 2 
 
 
 
 https://www.kaggle.com/c/PhotoQualityPrediction .
Here is some basic information about the competition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our first experiment is to use the parameter-free Ladder mechanism in place of
the Kaggle mechanism across all submissions and recompute both the
public and the private leaderboard. The resulting rankings turn out to be very close to
those computed by Kaggle. For example, Table  1 shows the only
perturbations in the ranking among the top submissions. 
 
 
 
 Figure  4 plots the public versus private scores of the leading 
submissions (w.r.t the private leaderboard). The diagonal line indicates an
equal private and public score. The plot
a small amount of underfitting between the public and private scores.
That is, the losses on the public leaderboard generally tend to be slightly higher than
on the private leaderboard. This appears to be due random
fluctuations in the proportion of hard examples in the public holdout set. 
 
 
 To assess this possibility and gain further insight into the magnitude of
statistical deviations of the scores, we randomly split the private holdout
set into two equally sized parts and recompute the leaderboards on each part.
We repeat the process times independently and look at the standard
deviations of the scores across these repetitions. Figure  5 
shows the results demonstrating that the statistical deviations due to random
splitting are large relative to the difference in mean scores. In particular
the amount of underfitting observed on the original split is within one
standard deviation of the mean scores which cluster close to the diagonal
line. We also observed that the top scores are highly correlated so that
across different splits the points are either mostly above or mostly below the
diagonal line. This must be due to the fact that the best submissions in this
competition used related classifiers that fail to predict roughly the same
label set. 
 
 
 
 
 6.1 Statistical significance analysis 

 
 To get a better sense of the statistical significance of the difference
between the scores of competing submissions we performed a sequence of
significance tests. Specifically, we considered the top submissions taken
from the Kaggle public leaderboard and tested on the private 
data if the true score of the top submission is significantly different from
the rank  submission for A suitable test of significance
is the paired -test. The score of a submission is the mean of a large
number of samples in the interval and follows a sufficiently accurate
normal approximation. We chose a paired -test rather than an unpaired
 -test, because it has far greater statistical power in our setting. This
is primarily due to the strong correlation between competing submissions. See
 Equation  6 for a definition of the test statistic. Note that the data
that determined the selection of the top classifiers is independent of
the data used to perform the significance tests. 
 
 
 Figure  6 plots the resulting -values before and after
correction for multiple comparisons. We see that after applying a Bonferroni
correction, the only submissions with a significantly different mean are 
and 
 
 
 
 These observations give further evidence that the small perturbations we saw
in the top  leaderboard between the Kaggle mechanism and the Ladder
mechanism are below the level of statistical significance. 
 
 
 
 
 7 Conclusion 

 
 We hope that the Ladder mechanism will be helpful in making machine learning
competitions more reliable. Beyond the scope of machine learning competitions, it is
conceivable that the Ladder mechanism could be useful in other domains where
overfitting is currently a concern. For example, in the context of false
discovery in the empirical sciences  [ Ioa , GL ] , one could imagine
using the the Ladder mechanism as a way of keeping track of scientific progress on important public data
sets. 
 
 
 Our algorithm can also be seen as an intuitive explanation for why overfitting
to the holdout is sometimes not a major problem even in the adaptive setting.
If indeed every analyst only uses the holdout set to test if their latest
submission is well above the previous best, then they effectively
simulate our algorithm. 
 
 
 A beautiful theoretical problem is to resolve the gap between our upper and
lower bound. On the practical side, it would be interesting to use the Ladder
mechanism in a real competition. One interesting question is if the Ladder
mechanism actually encourages higher quality submissions by requiring a
certain level of statistically significant improvement over previous
submissions. 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 [DFH ] 
 
Cynthia Dwork, Vitaly Feldman, Moritz Hardt, Toniann Pitassi, Omer Reingold,
and Aaron Roth.

 
 Preserving statistical validity in adaptive data analysis.

 
 In Proc. th Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC) . ACM,
2014.

 
 
 [GL] 
 
Andrew Gelman and Eric Loken.

 
 The garden of forking paths: Why multiple comparisons can be a
problem, even when there is no “fishing expedition” or “p-hacking” and
the research hypothesis was posited ahead of time, 2013.

 
 
 [Has] 
 
R. Z. Has’minskii.

 
 A lower bound on the risks of nonparametric estimates of densities in
the uniform metric.

 
 Theory of Probability and Applications , 23:794–798, 1978.

 
 
 [HTF] 
 
Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, and Jerome Friedman.

 
 The Elements of Statistical Learning .

 
 Springer, 2001.

 
 
 [HU] 
 
Moritz Hardt and Jonathan Ullman.

 
 Preventing false discovery in interactive data analysis is hard.

 
 In Proc. th Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS) , pages
454–463. IEEE, 2014.

 
 
 [Ioa] 
 
John P. A. Ioannidis.

 
 Why Most Published Research Findings Are False.

 
 PLoS Medicine , 2(8):124, August 2005.

 
 
 [SU] 
 
Thomas Steinke and Jonathan Ullman.

 
 Interactive fingerprinting codes and the hardness of preventing false
discovery.

 
 CoRR , abs/1410.1228, 2014.

 
 
 [Tsy] 
 
Alexandre B. Tsybakov.

 
 Introduction to Nonparametric Estimation .

 
 Springer, 1st edition, 2008.

 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A Kaggle reference mechanism 

 
 As we did for the Ladder Mechanism we describe the algorithm as if the analyst
was submitting classifiers In reality the analyst only
submits a list of labels. It is easy to see that such a list of labels is
sufficient to compute the empirical loss which is all the algorithm needs to
do. The input set in the description of our algorithm corresponds to the
set of data points (and corresponding labels) that Kaggle uses for the public
leaderboard. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
