 
 
 
 On Model Stability as a Function of Random Seed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 2 Measuring Model Stability 
 
 2.1 Prediction Stability 
 2.2 Interpretation Stability 
 
 Interpretation methods under study: 
 
 
 3 Reducing Model Instability with an Optimization Lens 
 
 3.1 Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging (ASWA) 
 3.2 Norm-filtered Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging (NASWA) 
 
 4 Experiments 
 
 4.1 Models 
 4.2 Datasets 
 4.3 Settings and Hyperparameters 
 
 5 Results 
 
 5.1 Model Performance and Stability 
 5.2 Attention Stability 
 
 Binary Classification 
 Multi-class Classification 
 
 5.3 Gradient-based Interpretations 
 5.4 LIME based Interpretations 
 
 6 Discussion 
 7 Conclusions 
 References 
 A Jaccard Distance Experiments 
 B Results with 100 seeds 
 C Hyperparameter Settings 
 D Binary Classification with LSTM based Models 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: CC BY 4.0
 
 
arXiv:1909.10447v1 [cs.LG] 23 Sep 2019 
 
 
 On Model Stability as a Function of Random Seed 
 
 
 Pranava Madhyastha
 
 Affiliation:  Department of Computing
 
 Affiliation:  Imperial College London
 
 Email:  pranava@imperial.ac.uk 
 
    
 Rishabh Jain
 thanks: ˜˜This work was conducted when the author was a student at Imperial College London. 
 Affiliation:  Bloomberg
 
 Affiliation:  London
 
 Email:  rjain213@bloomberg.net 
 

 Abstract 
 
 In this paper, we focus on quantifying model stability as a function of random seed by investigating the effects of the induced randomness on model performance and the robustness of the model in general. We specifically perform a controlled study on the effect of random seeds on the behaviour of attention, gradient-based and surrogate model based (LIME) interpretations. Our analysis suggests that random seeds can adversely affect the consistency of models resulting in counterfactual interpretations. We propose a technique called  Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging (ASWA) and an extension called  Norm-filtered Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging (NASWA) which improves the stability of models over random seeds. With our ASWA and NASWA based optimization, we are able to improve the robustness of the original model, on average reducing the standard deviation of the model’s performance by . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 

 
 There has been a tremendous growth in deep neural network based models that achieve state-of-the-art performance. In fact, most recent end-to-end deep learning models have surpassed the performance of careful human feature-engineering based models in a variety of NLP tasks. However, deep neural network based models are often brittle to various sources of randomness in the training of the models. This could be attributed to several sources including, but not limited to, random parameter initialization, random sampling of examples during training and random dropping of neurons. It has been observed that these models have, more often, a set of random seeds that yield better results than others. This has also lead to research suggesting random seeds as an additional hyperparameter for tuning Bengio (2012) 
 1 
 
 
 
 http://www.argmin.net/2018/02/26/nominal/ .
One possible explanation for this behavior could be the existence of multiple local minima in the loss surface. This is especially problematic as the loss surfaces are generally non-convex and may have multiple saddle points making it difficult to achieve model stability. 
 
 
 
 Recently the NLP community has witnessed a resurgence in interpreting and explaining deep neural network based models  Jain et al. (2019) ; Jain and Wallace (2019) ; Alvarez-Melis and Jaakkola (2017) . Most of the interpretation based methods involve one of the following ways of interpreting models: a) sample oriented interpretations: where the interpretation is based on changes in the prediction score with either upweighting or perturbing samples  Jain et al. (2019) ; Jain and Wallace (2019) ; Koh and Liang (2017) ; b) interpretations based on feature attributions using attention or input perturbation or gradient-based measures;  Ghaeini et al. (2018) ; Feng et al. (2018) ; Bach et al. (2015) ; c) interpretations using surrogate linear models  Ribeiro et al. (2016) – these methods can provide local interpretations based on input samples or features. However, the presence of inherent randomness makes it difficult to accurately interpret deep neural models among other forms of pathologies  Feng et al. (2018) . 
 
 
 In this paper, we focus on the stability of deep neural models as a function of random-seed based effects. We are especially interested in investigating the hypothesis focusing on model stability: do neural network based models under different random seeds allow for similar interpretations of their decisions?
We claim that for a given model which achieves a substantial performance for a task, the factors responsible for any decisions over a sample should be approximately consistent irrespective of the random seed.
In Figure  1 , we show an illustration of this question where we visualize the attention distributions of two CNN based binary classification models for sentiment analysis, trained with the same settings and hyper-parameters, but with different seeds . We observe that both models obtain the correct prediction with significantly high confidence. However, we note that both the models attend to completely different sets of words. This is problematic, especially when interpreting these models under the influence of such randomness. We observe that on average of the most important interpretable units are different across different random seeds for the same model.
This phenomenon also leads us to the question on the exact nature of interpretability – are the interpretations specific to an instantiation of the model or are they general to a class of models? 
 
 
 We also provide a simple method that can, to a large extent, ameliorate this inherent random behaviour. In Section  3.1 , we propose an aggressive stochastic weight averaging approach that helps in improving the stability of the models at almost zero performance loss while still making the model robust to random-seed based instability. We also propose an improvement to this model in Section  3.2 which further improves the stability of the neural models. Our proposals significantly improve the robustness of the model, on average by relative to the original model and on Diabetes (MIMIC), a binary classification dataset, by (relative improvement). All code for reproducing and replicating our experiments is released in our repository 
 2 
 
 
 
 https://github.com/rishj97/ModelStability . 
 
 
 
 2 Measuring Model Stability 

 
 In this section, we describe methods that we use to measure model stability, specifically — prediction and interpretation stability. 
 
 
 2.1 Prediction Stability 

 
 We measure prediction stability
using standard measures of the mean and the standard deviations corresponding to the accuracy of the classification based models on different datasets. We ensure that the models are run with exactly the same configurations and hyper-parameters but with different random seeds. This is a standard procedure that is used in the community to report the performance of the model. 
 
 
 
 2.2 Interpretation Stability 

 
 For a given task, we train a set of models only differing with random-seeds. For every given test sample, we obtain interpretations using different instantiations of the models. We define a model to be stable if we obtain similar interpretations regardless of different random-seed based instantiations. We use the following metrics to quantify stability: 
 
 
 a) Relative Entropy quantification ( ): Given two distributions over interpretations, for the same test case, from two different models, it measures the relative entropy between the two probability distributions. Note that, the higher the relative entropy the greater the dissimilarity between the two distributions. 
 
 where, and are two attention distributions of the same sample from two different runs of the model and is the number of tokens in the sample. Given differently seeded models, for each test instance, we calculate the relative entropy obtained from the corresponding averaged pairwise interpretation distributions. 
 
 
 b) Jaccard Distance ( ): It measures the dissimilarity between two sets. Here higher values of indicate larger variances. We consider top- tokens which have the highest attention for comparison. Note that, Jaccard distance is over sets of word indices and do not take into account the attention probabilities explicitly. Jaccard distance is defined as: 
 
 where, and are the sets of most relevant items. We specifically decided to use ‘most’ relevant (top- items) as the tail of the distribution mostly consists of values close to . 
 
 
 Interpretation methods under study: 

 
 In this paper we study interpretation stability using the following three interpretation methods: 
 
 
 
 1. 
 
 Attention based interpretation: We focus on attention probabilities as the mode of interpretation and consider the model to be stable if different instantiations of the model leads to similar attention distributions. Our major focus in this paper is attention based interpretation. As we use  Jain et al. (2019) as a testbed for our investigation, we focus heavily on attention. Also, as the attention layer has a linear relationship with the prediction, we consider attention to be more indicative of the model stability. 
 
 2. 
 
 Gradient-based feature importance: Given a sample, we use the input gradients of the model corresponding to each of the word representations and compute the magnitude of the change as a local explanation. We refer the reader to  Baehrens et al. (2010) for a good introduction to gradient-based interpretations. As all of our models are differentiable, we use this as an alternative method for interpretation. We follow the standard procedure as followed in  Feng et al. (2018) and note that we do not follow  Jain and Wallace (2019) and do not disconnect the computational graph at the attention module. We obtain probabilistic gradient scores by normalizing over the absolute values of gradient values. 
 
 3. 
 
 LIME based interpretation: We use locally interpretable model-agnostic interpretations  Ribeiro et al. (2016) that learns a surrogate interpretable model locally around the predictions of the deep neural based model. We obtain LIME based interpretations for every instantiation of the models. We then use Jaccard Distance to measure the divergence. 
 
 
 We note that, we observe similar patterns across the three interpretation methods and the interpretations consistently differ with random seeds. 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 Reducing Model Instability with an Optimization Lens 

 
 We observe that different instantiations of the model can cause the model have different starts on the optimization surface. Further, stochastic sampling might result in different paths. Both of these factors can lead to different local minimas potentially leading to different solutions. With this observation as our background we propose two, closely related, methods to ameliorate divergence: Agressive Stochastic Weight Averaging and Norm-filtered Agressive Stochastic Weight Averaging. We describe these two in the following subsections. 
 
 
 3.1 Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging (ASWA) 

 
 Stochastic weight averaging (SWA)  Izmailov et al. (2018) works by averaging the weights of multiple points in the trajectory of gradient descent based optimizers. The algorithm typically uses modified learning rate schedules. SWA is itself based on the idea of maintaining a running average of weights in stochastic gradient descent based optimization techniques  Ruppert (1988) ; Polyak and Juditsky (1992) . The principle idea in SWA is averaging the weights that are maximally distant helps stabilize the gradient descent based optimizer trajectory and improves generalization.   Izmailov et al. (2018) use the analysis of  Mandt et al. (2017) to illustrate the stability arguments where they show that, under certain convexity assumptions, SGD iterations can be visualized as sampling from a Gaussian distribution centred at the minima of the loss function. Samples from high-dimensional Gaussians are expected to be concentrated on the surface of the ellipse and not close to the mean . Averaging iterations is shown to stabilize the trajectory and further improve the width of the solutions to be closer to the mean . 
 
 
 In this paper, we focus on the stability of deep neural models as a function of random-seeds. Our proposal is based on SWA, but we extend it to the extremes and call it Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging . We assume that, for small batch size, the loss surface is locally convex. We further relax the conditions for the optimizer and assume that the optimizer is based on some version of gradient descent — this means that our modification is valid even for other pseudo-first-order optimization algorithms including Adam  Kingma and Ba (2014) and Adagrad  Duchi et al. (2011) . 
 
 
 We note that, Izmailov et al. (2018) suggest using SWA usually after ’pre-’training the model (at least until convergence) and followed by sampling weights at different steps either using large constant or cyclical learning rates. While, SWA is well defined for convex losses  Polyak and Juditsky (1992) , Izmailov et al. (2018) connect SWA to non-convex losses by suggesting that the loss surface is  approximately convex after convergence.
In our setup, we investigate the utility of averaging weights over every iteration (an iteration consists of one batch of the gradient descent).
Algorithm  1 shows the implementation pseudo-code for SWA. We note that, unlike  Izmailov et al. (2018) , we average our weights at each batch update and assign the ASWA parameters to the model at the end of each epoch. That is, we replace the model’s weights for the next epoch with the averaged weights. 
 
 
 
 In Figure  2 , we show an SGD optimizer (with momentum) and the same optimizer with SWA over a -dimensional loss surface with a saddle point. We observe that the original SGD reaches the desired minima, however, it almost reaches the saddle point and does a course correction and reaches minima. On the other hand, we observe that SGD with ASWA is very conservative, it repeatedly restarts and reaches the minima without reaching the saddle point. We empirically observe that this is a desired property for the stability of models over runs of the same model that differ only over random instantiations. The grey circles in Figure 2 highlight this conservative behaviour of SGD with ASWA optimizer, especially when compared to the standard SGD.
Further,   Polyak and Juditsky (1992) show that for convex losses, averaging SGD proposals achieves the highest possible rate of convergence for a variety of first-order SGD based algorithms. 
 
 
 
 Figure 2: Trajectory for gradient descent algorithms with red and black arrows on (b) indicating movements from consecutive epochs with restarts. Conservative behaviour of ASWA algorithm helps avoid the saddle point without ever reaching it. 
 
 
 
 3.2 Norm-filtered Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging (NASWA) 

 
 
 We observe that the ASWA algorithm is especially beneficial when the norm difference of the parameters of the model are high. We hypothesise that in general, the norm difference indicates the divergence between optimizers’ steps and we observe that the larger the norm difference, the greater the change in the trajectory. Therefore, we propose to maintain a list that stores the norm differences of the previous iterations. If the norm difference of the current iteration is greater than the average of the list, we update the ASWA weights and reinitialize the list with the current norm difference. When the norm difference, however, is less than the average of the list, we just append the current norm difference to the list. After the completion of the epoch, we assign the ASWA parameters to the model. This is shown in Algorithm  2 . We call this approach Norm-filtered Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging . 
 
 
 
 
 4 Experiments 

 
 We base our investigation on similar sets of models as  Jain and Wallace (2019) . We also use the code provided by the authors for our empirical investigations for consistency and empirical validation. We describe our models and datasets used for the experiments below. 
 
 
 4.1 Models 

 
 We consider two sets of commonly used neural models for the tasks of binary classification and multi-class natural language inference. We use CNN and bi-directional LSTM based models with attention. We follow  Jain and Wallace (2019) and use similar attention mechanisms using a) additive attention  Bahdanau et al. (2014) ; and b) scaled dot product based attention  Vaswani et al. (2017) . We jointly optimize all the parameters for the model, unlike  Jain and Wallace (2019) where the encoding layer, attention layer and the output prediction layer are all optimized separately. We experiment with several optimizers including Adam  Kingma and Ba (2014) , SGD and Adagrad  Duchi et al. (2011) but most results below are with Adam. 
 
 
 For our ASWA and NASWA based experiments, we use a constant learning rate for our optimizer. Other model-specific settings are kept the same as  Jain and Wallace (2019) for consistency. 
 
 
 
 
 4.2 Datasets 

 
 The datasets used in our experiments are listed in Table  1 with summary statistics. We further pre-process and tokenize the datasets using the standard procedure and follow  Jain and Wallace (2019) . We note that IMDB  Maas et al. (2011) , Diabetes(MIMIC)  Johnson et al. (2016) , Anemia(MIMIC)  Johnson et al. (2016) , AgNews  Zhang et al. (2015) , ADR Tweets  Nikfarjam et al. (2015) and SST  Socher et al. (2013) are datasets for the binary classification setup. SNLI  Bowman et al. (2015) is a dataset for the multiclass classification setup. All of the datasets are in English, however we expect the behavior to persist regardless of the language. 
 
 
 
 4.3 Settings and Hyperparameters 

 
 We use a -dimenstional embedding layer which is initialized with FastText  Joulin et al. (2016) based free-trained embeddings for both CNN and the bi-directional LSTM based models. We use a -dimensional hidden layer for the bi-directional LSTM and a -dimensional filter with kernels of size for CNN. For others, we maintain the model settings to resemble the models in  Jain and Wallace (2019) .
We train all of our models for 20 Epochs with a constant batch size of 32. We use early stopping based on the validation set using task-specific metrics (Binary Classification: using roc-auc , Multiclass and question answering based dataset: using accuracy ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 Results 

 
 In this section, we summarize our findings for runs of the model with different random seeds but with identical model settings. 
 
 
 5.1 Model Performance and Stability 

 
 We first report model performance and prediction stability. The results are reported in Table  2 . 
 
 
 
 We note that the original CNN based models, on an average, have a standard deviation of . Which seems standard, however, we note that ADR Tweets dataset has a very high standard deviation of . We observe that ASWA and NASWA are almost always able to achieve higher performance with a very low standard deviation. This suggests that both ASWA and NASWA are extremely stable when compared to the standard model. They significantly improve the robustness, on an average, by relative to the original model and on Diabetes (MIMIC), a binary classification dataset, by (relative improvement). We observe similar results for the LSTM based models in Table  3 . 
 
 
 
 Figure 3: Prediction’s standard deviation for CNN and LSTM based models for all binary classification datasets under consideration. Predictions are bucketed in intervals of size 0.1, starting from 0 (containing predictions from 0 to 0.1), until 0.9 
 
 
 We further analyze the prediction score stability by computing the mean standard deviation over the binned confidence intervals of the models in Figure  3(a) . We note that on an average, the standard deviations are on the lower side. However, we observe that the mean standard deviation of the bins close to is on the higher side as is expected given the high uncertainty. On the other hand both, ASWA and NASWA based models are relatively more stable than the standard CNN based model. We observe similar behaviours for the LSTM based models in Figure  3(b) .
This suggests that our proposed methods, ASWA and NASWA, are able to obtain relatively better stability without any loss in performance. We also note that both ASWA and NASWA had relatively similar performance over more than random seeds. 
 
 
 
 5.2 Attention Stability 

 
 
 Figure 4: Average attention entropy against the bucketed predictions for CNN and LSTM based models. Figure highlights the high entropy between attention based distributions from differently seeded models (especially for the Diabetes-MIMIC datatset), indicating towards model instability. 
 
 
 We now consider the stability of attention distributions as a function of random seeds. We first plot the results of the experiments for standard CNN based binary classification models over uniformly binned prediction scores for positive labels in Figure  4(a) . We observe that, depending on the datasets, the attention distributions can become extremely unstable (high entropy). We specifically highlight the Diabetes(MIMIC) dataset’s entropy distribution.
We observe similar, but relatively worse results for the LSTM based models in Figure  4(b) . In general, we would expect the entropy distribution to be close to zero however, this doesn’t seem to be the case. This means that using attention distributions to interpret models may not be reliable and can lead to misinterpretations. 
 
 
 
 Figure 5: Jaccard distance highlighting instability in attention distributions of CNN and LSTM based models. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 6: Improved prediction stability from ASWA and NASWA for CNN and LSTM based models 
 
 
 
 Figure 7: Gradient based interpretations’ stability improvement from NASWA on CNN based models. The Jaccard distance is calculated using the top 20% attentive items. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 8: Attention stability improvement from ASWA and NASWA on CNN based models. 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 9: Attention stability improvement from ASWA and NASWA on CNN based model for the SNLI dataset. 
 
 
 We use the top of the most important items (indices) in the attention distribution for each dataset over runs and plot the Jaccard distances for CNN and LSTM based models in Figure  5(a) and Figure  5(b) . We again notice a similar trend of unstable attention distributions over both CNN and LSTM based attention distribution. 
 
 
 In the following sections for space constraints, we focus on CNN based models with additive attention. Our results on LSTM based models are provided in the attached supplementary material. We note that the observations for LSTM models are, in most cases, similar to the behaviour of the CNN based models. Scaled dot-product based models are also provided in the supplementary material and we notice a similar trend as the additive attention. 
 
 
 We now focus on the effect of ASWA and NASWA on binary and multi-class CNN based neural models separately. 
 
 
 Binary Classification 

 
 In Figure  8 , we plot the results of the models with ASWA and NASWA. We observe that both these algorithms significantly improve the model stability and decrease the entropy between attention distributions. For example, in Figure  8(b) , both ASWA and NASWA decrease the average entropy by about . We further notice that NASWA is slightly better performing in most of the runs. This empirically validates the hypothesis that averaging the weights from divergent weights (when the norm difference is higher than the average norm difference) helps in stabilizing the model’s parameters, resulting in a more robust model. 
 
 
 
 Multi-class Classification 

 
 In Figure 9 , we plot the entropy between the attentions distributions of the models for the SNLI dataset (CNN based model), separately for each label ( neutral , contradiction , and entailment ). We notice, similar observations as the binary classification models, the ASWA and NASWA algorithms are able to significantly improve the entropy of the attention distributions and increases the robustness of the model with random seeds. 
 
 
 
 
 5.3 Gradient-based Interpretations 

 
 We now look at an alternative method of interpreting deep neural models and look into the consistency of the gradient-based interpretations to further analyze the model’s instability. For this setup, we focus on binary classifier and plot the results on the SST and the Diabetes dataset in particular since they cover the low and the high end of the entropy spectrum (respectively).
We notice similar trends of instability in the gradient-based interpretations from model inputs as we did for the attention distributions. Figure 7 shows that the entropy between the gradient-based interpretations from differently seeded models closely follows the same trend as the attention distributions.
This result further strengthens our claim on the importance of model stability and shows that over different runs of the same model with different seeds, we may get different interpretations using gradient-based feature importance. Moreover, Figure 7 shows the impact of ASWA towards making the gradient-based interpretations more consistent, thus, significantly increasing the stability. 
 
 
 
 5.4 LIME based Interpretations 

 
 We further evaluated the surrogate model based interpretability using LIME  Ribeiro et al. (2016) . LIME obtains a locally linear approximation of the model’s behaviour for a given sample by perturbing it and learning a sparse linear model around it. We focus on AgNews and SST based datasets and obtain interpretability estimates using LIME. Once again, we notice a similar pattern of instability as the other two interpretability methods. In Figure  10 we present our results from the LIME based interpretations with Jaccard distance as the measure. Note that we measure the Jaccard distance over the top most influential items. We observe once again that NASWA helps in reducing the instability and results in more consistent interpretations. 
 
 
 
 Figure 10: LIME based interpretations’ stability improvement from NASWA on CNN based models. The Jaccard distance is calculated using the top 20% attentive items. 
 
 
 In all our experiments, we find that a significant proportion of interpretations are dependent on the instantiation of the model. We also note that we perform experiments over random seeds for greater statistical power and see similar patterns 
 3 
 
 
 
 These results are provided in the appendix. . 
 
 
 
 
 6 Discussion 

 
 Recent advances in adversarial machine learning  Neelakantan et al. (2015) ; Zahavy et al. (2016) have investigated robustness to random initialization based perturbations, however, to our knowledge, no previous study investigates the effect of random-seeds and its connection on model interpretation. Our study analyzed the inherent lack of robustness in deep neural models for NLP. Recent studies cast doubt on the consistency and correlations of several types of interpretations  Doshi-Velez and Kim (2017) ; Jain and Wallace (2019) ; Feng et al. (2018) . We hypothesise that some of these issues are due to the inherent instability of the deep neural models to random-seed base perturbations. Our analysis (in Section  4 ) leads to the hypothesis that models with different instantiations may use completely different optimization paths. The issue of variance in all black-box interpretation methods over different seeds will continue to persist until the models are fully robust to random-seed based perturbations. Our work however, doesn’t provide insights into instabilities of different layers of the models. We hypothesise that it might further uncover the reasons for the relatively lower correlation between different black-box interpretation methods as these are effectively based off on different layers and granularity. 
 
 
 There has been some work on using noisy gradients  Neelakantan et al. (2015) and learning from adversarial and counter-factual examples  Feng et al. (2018) to increase the robustness of deep learning models.  Feng et al. (2018) show that neural models may use redundant features for prediction and also show that most of the black-box interpretation methods may not be able to capture these second-order effects. Our proposals show that aggressively averaging weights leads to better optimization and the resultant models are more robust to random-seed based perturbation. However, our research is limited to increasing consistency in neural models. Our approach further uses first order based signals to boost stability. We posit that second-order based signals can further enhance consistency and increase the robustness. 
 
 
 
 7 Conclusions 

 
 In this paper, we study the inherent instability of deep neural models in NLP as a function of random seed. We analyze model performance and robustness of the model in the form of attention based interpretations, gradient-based feature importance and LIME based interpretations across multiple runs of the models with different random seeds. Our analysis strongly highlights the problems with stability of models and its effects on black-box interpretation methods leading to different interpretations for different random seeds.
We also propose a solution that makes use of weight averaging based optimization technique and further extend it with norm-filtering. We show that our proposed methods largely stabilize the model to random-seed based perturbations and, on average, significantly reduce the standard deviations of the model performance by . We further show that our methods significantly reduce the entropy in the attention distribution, the gradient-based feature importance measures and LIME based interpretations across runs. 
 
 
 
 Acknowledgments 

 
 We thank Panos Parpas and Emtiyaz Khan for their feedback on an earlier draft of this paper. We thank the anonymous reviewers for their thorough reviews and constructive comments. Pranava Madhyastha kindly acknowledges the support of Amazon AWS Cloud Credits for Research Award, hardware grant from NVIDIA, Anne O’Neill and the Imperial Corporate Partnership Programme. 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 Alvarez-Melis and Jaakkola (2017) 
 
David Alvarez-Melis and Tommi S Jaakkola. 2017.

 
 A causal framework for explaining the predictions of black-box
sequence-to-sequence models.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.01943 .

 
 
 Bach et al. (2015) 
 
Sebastian Bach, Alexander Binder, Grégoire Montavon, Frederick Klauschen,
Klaus-Robert Müller, and Wojciech Samek. 2015.

 
 On pixel-wise explanations for non-linear classifier decisions by
layer-wise relevance propagation.

 
 PloS one , 10(7):e0130140.

 
 
 Baehrens et al. (2010) 
 
David Baehrens, Timon Schroeter, Stefan Harmeling, Motoaki Kawanabe, Katja
Hansen, and Klaus-Robert MÃžller. 2010.

 
 How to explain individual classification decisions.

 
 Journal of Machine Learning Research , 11(Jun):1803–1831.

 
 
 Bahdanau et al. (2014) 
 
Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014.

 
 Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and
translate.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.0473 .

 
 
 Bengio (2012) 
 
Yoshua Bengio. 2012.

 
 Practical recommendations for gradient-based training of deep
architectures.

 
 In Neural networks: Tricks of the trade , pages 437–478.
Springer.

 
 
 Bowman et al. (2015) 
 
Samuel R Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D Manning.
2015.

 
 A large annotated corpus for learning natural language inference.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1508.05326 .

 
 
 Doshi-Velez and Kim (2017) 
 
Finale Doshi-Velez and Been Kim. 2017.

 
 Towards a rigorous science of interpretable machine learning.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.08608 .

 
 
 Duchi et al. (2011) 
 
John Duchi, Elad Hazan, and Yoram Singer. 2011.

 
 Adaptive subgradient methods for online learning and stochastic
optimization.

 
 Journal of Machine Learning Research , 12(Jul):2121–2159.

 
 
 Feng et al. (2018) 
 
Shi Feng, Eric Wallace, Alvin Grissom II, Pedro Rodriguez, Mohit Iyyer, and
Jordan Boyd-Graber. 2018.

 
 Pathologies of neural models make interpretation difficult.

 
 In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing .

 
 
 Ghaeini et al. (2018) 
 
Reza Ghaeini, Xiaoli Z Fern, and Prasad Tadepalli. 2018.

 
 Interpreting recurrent and attention-based neural models: a case
study on natural language inference.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.03894 .

 
 
 Izmailov et al. (2018) 
 
Pavel Izmailov, Dmitrii Podoprikhin, Timur Garipov, Dmitry Vetrov, and
Andrew Gordon Wilson. 2018.

 
 Averaging weights leads to wider optima and better generalization.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05407 .

 
 
 Jain et al. (2019) 
 
Sarthak Jain, Ramin Mohammadi, and Byron C Wallace. 2019.

 
 An analysis of attention over clinical notes for predictive tasks.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.03244 .

 
 
 Jain and Wallace (2019) 
 
Sarthak Jain and Byron C. Wallace. 2019.

 
 Attention is not
explanation .

 
 CoRR , abs/1902.10186.

 
 
 Johnson et al. (2016) 
 
Alistair EW Johnson, Tom J Pollard, Lu Shen, H Lehman Li-wei, Mengling Feng,
Mohammad Ghassemi, Benjamin Moody, Peter Szolovits, Leo Anthony Celi, and
Roger G Mark. 2016.

 
 Mimic-iii, a freely accessible critical care database.

 
 Scientific data , 3:160035.

 
 
 Joulin et al. (2016) 
 
Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, Piotr Bojanowski, Matthijs Douze, Hérve
Jégou, and Tomas Mikolov. 2016.

 
 Fasttext. zip: Compressing text classification models.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.03651 .

 
 
 Kingma and Ba (2014) 
 
Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014.

 
 Adam: A method for stochastic optimization.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980 .

 
 
 Koh and Liang (2017) 
 
Pang Wei Koh and Percy Liang. 2017.

 
 Understanding black-box predictions via influence functions.

 
 In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine
Learning-Volume 70 , pages 1885–1894. JMLR. org.

 
 
 Maas et al. (2011) 
 
Andrew L Maas, Raymond E Daly, Peter T Pham, Dan Huang, Andrew Y Ng, and
Christopher Potts. 2011.

 
 Learning word vectors for sentiment analysis.

 
 In Proceedings of the 49th annual meeting of the association
for computational linguistics: Human language technologies-volume 1 , pages
142–150. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Mandt et al. (2017) 
 
Stephan Mandt, Matthew D Hoffman, and David M Blei. 2017.

 
 Stochastic gradient descent as approximate bayesian inference.

 
 The Journal of Machine Learning Research , 18(1):4873–4907.

 
 
 Neelakantan et al. (2015) 
 
Arvind Neelakantan, Luke Vilnis, Quoc V Le, Ilya Sutskever, Lukasz Kaiser,
Karol Kurach, and James Martens. 2015.

 
 Adding gradient noise improves learning for very deep networks.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.06807 .

 
 
 Nikfarjam et al. (2015) 
 
Azadeh Nikfarjam, Abeed Sarker, Karen O’connor, Rachel Ginn, and Graciela
Gonzalez. 2015.

 
 Pharmacovigilance from social media: mining adverse drug reaction
mentions using sequence labeling with word embedding cluster features.

 
 Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association ,
22(3):671–681.

 
 
 Polyak and Juditsky (1992) 
 
Boris T Polyak and Anatoli B Juditsky. 1992.

 
 Acceleration of stochastic approximation by averaging.

 
 SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization , 30(4):838–855.

 
 
 Ribeiro et al. (2016) 
 
Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Sameer Singh, and Carlos Guestrin. 2016.

 
 Model-agnostic interpretability of machine learning.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.05386 .

 
 
 Ruppert (1988) 
 
David Ruppert. 1988.

 
 Stochastic approximation.

 
 Technical report, Cornell University Operations Research and
Industrial Engineering.

 
 
 Socher et al. (2013) 
 
Richard Socher, Alex Perelygin, Jean Wu, Jason Chuang, Christopher D Manning,
Andrew Ng, and Christopher Potts. 2013.

 
 Recursive deep models for semantic compositionality over a sentiment
treebank.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2013 conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing , pages 1631–1642.

 
 
 Vaswani et al. (2017) 
 
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones,
Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017.

 
 Attention is all you need.

 
 In Advances in neural information processing systems , pages
5998–6008.

 
 
 Zahavy et al. (2016) 
 
Tom Zahavy, Bingyi Kang, Alex Sivak, Jiashi Feng, Huan Xu, and Shie Mannor.
2016.

 
 Ensemble robustness and generalization of stochastic deep learning
algorithms.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1602.02389 .

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2015) 
 
Xiang Zhang, Junbo Zhao, and Yann LeCun. 2015.

 
 Character-level convolutional networks for text classification.

 
 In Advances in neural information processing systems , pages
649–657.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 14: Attention stability improvement from ASWA and NASWA on LSTM based models. 
 
 
 Appendix A Jaccard Distance Experiments 

 
 In Figure  5(a) and Figure  5(b) we plot the Jaccard distance plots with CNN models and LSTM models and note that ASWA consistently improves the stability of the interpretations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix B Results with 100 seeds 

 
 We perform attention stability based experiments as mentioned in the paper, but now with 100 seeds, i.e, 100 models initialized with different seeds instead of 10. Figures 11 , 13 , and 12 show the entropy of attention based interpretations for different datasets. Experimenting with 100 seeds helps strengthen our claims about the instability of the model and the effectiveness of our proposed algorithms like ASWA and NASWA. 
 
 
 
 Appendix C Hyperparameter Settings 

 
 For training purposes, we use the same model settings for the models as mentioned in the paper Jain and Wallace (2019) (or the Github implementation 
 4 
 
 
 
 https://github.com/successar/AttentionExplanation ), our port of the code is made available at: https://github.com/rishj97/ModelStability . Additional hyper-parameters for replication studies are: 
 
 • 
 
 Number of epochs: 20 
 
 • 
 
 Optimizer: Adam 
 
 • 
 
 Learning rate: 0.001 
 
 
 The exact seeds used for running the experiments can be found in our code repository. 
 
 
 
 Appendix D Binary Classification with LSTM based Models 

 
 For LSTM based models, we notice (in Figure 14 ) similar trends as to the CNN models in terms of the instability of the attention based interpretations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
