 
 
 
 We Need to Talk About Random Splits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 2 Experiments 
 
 Data splits 
 POS tagging 
 Probing 
 Quality estimation 
 Headline generation 
 Emoji prediction 
 News classification 
 
 3 Results 
 
 Discussion 
 Conclusions 
 
 References 
 A Appendices 
 
 A.1 Headlines 
 A.2 Quality Estimation 
 A.3 Alternative Heuristic Splits 
 
 Bootstrap Resampling 
 Random Length 
 Rare Words 
 Results 
 
 A.4 Computing adversarial splits 
 A.5 The significance of drift 
 
 Headline generation 
 Emoji prediction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: arXiv.org perpetual non-exclusive license
 
 
arXiv:2005.00636v3 [cs.CL] 26 Apr 2021 
 
 
 We Need to Talk About Random Splits 
 
 
 Anders Søgaard   Sebastian Ebert   Jasmijn Bastings   Katja Filippova
 
 Affiliation:  : Google Research, Berlin
 
 Affiliation:  : University of Copenhagen
 
 Email:  soegaard—eberts—bastings—katjaf@google.com 
 

 Abstract 
 
 Gorman and Bedrick (2019) argued for using random splits rather than standard splits in NLP experiments. We argue that random splits, like standard splits, lead to overly optimistic performance estimates. We can also split data in biased or adversarial ways, e.g., training on short sentences and evaluating on long ones. Biased sampling has been used in domain adaptation to simulate real-world drift; this is known as the covariate shift assumption. In NLP, however, even worst-case splits, maximizing bias, often under-estimate the error observed on new samples of in-domain data, i.e., the data that models should minimally generalize to at test time. This invalidates the covariate shift assumption. Instead of using multiple random splits, future benchmarks should ideally include multiple, independent test sets instead; if infeasible, we argue that multiple biased splits leads to more realistic performance estimates than multiple random splits. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 

 
 It is common practice in NLP to collect and annotate a text corpus – and split it into training, development and test data.
These splits are often based on the order in which texts were published or sampled, and are referred to as ‘standard splits’. Gorman and Bedrick (2019) recently showed that system ranking results based on standard splits differ from results based on random splits and used this to argue in favor of using random splits.
While perhaps less common, random splits are already used in probing Elazar and Goldberg (2018) , interpretability Poerner et al. (2018) , as well as core NLP tasks Yu et al. (2019) ; Geva et al. (2019) . 
 1 
 
 
 
 See also many of the tasks in the SemEval evaluation campaigns: http://alt.qcri.org/semeval2020/ 
 
 
 
 Gorman and Bedrick (2019) focus on whether there is a significant performance difference between systems and ; , in their notation. They argue McNemar’s test Gillick and Cox (1989) or bootstrap Efron (1981) can establish that , using random splits to sample from . This, of course, relies on the assumption that data is representative, i.e., was sampled i.i.d.  Wolpert (1996) . 
 
 
 In reality, what Gorman and Bedrick (2019) call the true difference in system performance , i.e., , is the system difference on data that users would expect the systems to work well on (see §2 for practical examples) – and not just on the corpus that we have annotations for. Our corpus-based estimates of can in fact be very misleading, i.e., very different from performance on new samples of data. In this paper, we investigate how misleading our estimates can be: We show that random splits consistently over-estimate performance at test time. This favors systems that overfit. We investigate alternatives across a heterogeneous set of NLP tasks. Based on our experiments, our answer to community-wide overfitting to standard splits is not to use random splits but to collect more diverse data with different biases – or if that is not feasible, split your data in adversarial, not random, ways. In general, we observe that estimates of test time error are worst for random splits, slightly better for standard splits (if those exist), better for heuristic and adversarial splits, but error still tends to be higher on new (in-domain) samples; see Figure  1 . 
 
 
 Our results not only refute the hypothesis that can be estimated using random splits Gorman and Bedrick (2019) , 
 2 
 
 
 
 Or cross-validation, as more recently proposed in Szymański and Gorman (2020) . In this very interesting follow-up paper, about Bayesian inference of , the authors write that their
”estimates are valid insofar as the data sets used to
estimate the Bayesian models comprise a representative sample of a coherent population of data sets.” Our results show how off this assumption is. but also the covariate shift hypothesis Shimodaira (2000) ; Shah et al. (2020) that can be estimated using reweightings of the data. While biased splits are useful in the absence of multiple held-out samples, and have been proposed before Karimi et al. (2015) , 
 3 
 
 
 
 Karimi et al. (2015) discuss temporal splits and splits based on neighbor-based heuristics that are similar in spirit to our worst-case splits. they often overestimate performance in the wild. Our code is made publicly available at https://github.com/google-research/google-research/tree/master/talk_about_random_splits . 
 
 
 
 2 Experiments 

 
 We consider 7 different NLP tasks: POS tagging (like Gorman and Bedrick (2019) ), two sentence representation probing tasks, headline generation, translation quality estimation, emoji prediction, and news classification. We experiment with these tasks, because they a) are diverse, b) have not been subject to decades of community-wide overfitting (with the exception of POS tagging), and c) three of them enabled temporal splits (see Appendix §A.5). 
 
 
 
 Data splits 

 
 The datasets which we will use in our experiments are presented in Table  1 . For all seven tasks, we will present results for standard splits when possible ( POS , Probing , QE , Headlines ), random splits, heuristic and adversarial splits, as well as on new samples. In the case of Emojis , Headlines and News , which are all time-stamped datasets, we leave out historically more recent data as our new samples. All new samples are in-domain samples of data where models are supposed to generalize, i.e, samples from similar text sources. 
 4 
 
 
 
 Domains are commonly defined as collections of similar text sources Harbusch et al. (2003) ; Koehn and Knowles (2017) . In addition to using similar sources, we control for low -distance Ben-David et al. (2006) by looking at separability; e.g., a simple linear classifier over frequent unigrams can distinguish between Penn Treebank development and test sections with an accuracy of 64%; and between the development and our new sample with an accuracy of 69%. This is a key point: These are samples that any end user would expect decent NLP models to fair well on . Examples include a sample of newspaper articles from newspaper for a POS tagger trained on articles from newspaper ; tweets sampled the day after the training data was sampled; or news headlines sampled from the same sources, but a year later. 
 
 
 We resample random splits multiple times (3-10 per task) and report average results. The heuristic splits are obtained by finding a sentence length threshold and putting the long sentences in the test split. We choose a threshold so that approximately 10% of the data ends up in this split. The idea of checking whether models generalize to longer sentences is not new; on the contrary, this goes back, at least, to early formal studies of recurrent neural networks, e.g., Siegelmann and Sontag (1992) . In the §A.3, we present a few experiments with alternative heuristic splits, but in our main experiments we limit ourselves to splits based on sentence length. 
 
 
 Finally, the adversarial splits are computed by approximately maximizing the Wasserstein distance between the splits. The Wasserstein distance is often used to measure divergence between distributions Arjovsky et al. (2017) ; Tolstikhin et al. (2018) ; Shen et al. (2018) ; Shah et al. (2018) , and while alternatives exist Ben-David et al. (2006) ; Borgwardt et al. (2006) , it is easy to compute and parameter-free. Since selecting the worst-case split is an NP-hard problem (e.g., by reduction of the knapsack problem), we have to rely on an approximation. We first compute a ball tree encoding the Wasserstein distances between the data points in our sample. We then randomly  select a centroid for our test split and find its nearest neighbors. Those nearest neighbors constitute our test split; the rest is used to train and validate our model. We repeat these steps to estimate performance on worst-case splits of our sample. See §A.4 for an algorithm sketch. Random, heuristic, and adversarial results are averaged across five runs. 
 
 
 
 POS tagging 

 
 We first consider the task in Gorman and Bedrick (2019) , experiment with heuristic and adversarial splits of the original Penn Treebank Marcus et al. (1993) , and add the Xinhua section of OntoNotes 5.0 
 5 
 
 
 
 https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2013T19 as our New Sample . Our tagger is NCRF with default parameters. 
 6 
 
 
 
 github.com/jiesutd/NCRFpp 
 
 
 
 Probing 

 
 We also include two SentEval probing tasks Conneau et al. (2018) with data from the Toronto Book Corpus: Probing-WC (word classification) and Probing-BShift (whether a bigram was swapped) Conneau et al. (2018) . Unlike the other probing tasks, these two tasks do not rely on external syntactic parsers, which would otherwise introduce a new type of bias that we would have to take into account in our analysis. We use the official SentEval framework 
 7 
 
 
 
 github.com/facebookresearch/SentEval and
BERT Devlin et al. (2019) as our sentence encoder. The probing model is a logistic regression classifier with regularization,
tuned on the development set.
As our New Samples , we use five random samples of the 2018 Gutenberg Corpus 
 8 
 
 
 
 tinyurl.com/zyq3yvn for each task, preprocessed in the same way as Conneau et al. (2018) . 
 
 
 
 
 Quality estimation 

 
 We use the WMT 2014 shared task datasets for Quality Estimation . Specifically, we use the Spanish-English data from Task 1.1: scoring for perceived post-editing effort. The dataset comes with a training and test set, and a second, unofficial test set, which we use as our New Sample . In the §A.2, we also present results training on Spanish-English and evaluating on German-English. We present a simple model that only considers the target sentence, but performs better than the best shared task systems: we train an MLP over a LASER sentence embedding Schwenk et al. (2019) with the following hyper-parameters: two hidden layers with 100 parameters each and ReLU activation functions, trained using the Adam stochastic gradient-based optimizer Kingma and Ba (2015) , a batch size of 200, and penalty of strength . 
 
 
 
 Headline generation 

 
 We use the standard dataset for headline generation, derived from the Gigaword corpus Napoles et al. (2012) , as published by Rush et al. (2015) . The task is to generate a headline from the first sentence of a news article. Our architecture is a sequence-to-sequence model with stacked bi-directional LSTMs with dropout, attention Luong et al. (2015) and beam decoding; the number of hidden units is 128; we do not pre-train. Different from Rush et al. (2015) , we use subword units Sennrich et al. (2016) to overcome the OOV problem and speed up training. The ROUGE scores we obtain on the standard splits are higher than those reported by Rush et al. (2015) and comparable to those of Nallapati et al. (2016) , e.g., ROUGE-1 of 0.321.
As our New sample , we reserve 20,000 sentence-headline pairs each from the first and second halves of 2004 for validation and testing; years 1998-2003 are used for training.
For all the experiments we report the error reduction in ROUGE-2 of the model over the identity baseline, which simply copies the input sentence (other ROUGE values are reported in the §A.1). In §5, we will explore how much of a performance drop on the fixed test set is caused by shifting the training data by only five years to the past. 
 
 
 
 Emoji prediction 

 
 Go et al. (2009) introduce an emoji prediction dataset, collected from Twitter and is time-stamped.
We use
the 67,980 tweets from June 16 as our New Sample , and tweets from all previous days for the remaining experiments.
For this task, we again train an MLP over a LASER embedding Schwenk et al. (2019) with hyper-parameters:
two hidden layers with 50 parameters each and ReLU activation functions, trained using the Adam stochastic gradient-based optimizer Kingma and Ba (2015) , a batch size of 200, and penalty of strength . See §5 for a discussion of temporal drift in this data. 
 
 
 
 News classification 

 
 We use a UCI Machine Learning Repository text classification problem. 
 9 
 
 
 
 tinyurl.com/yysysmtr Our datapoints are headlines associated with five different news genres. We use the last year of this corpus as our New Sample . We sample 100,000 headlines from the rest and train an MLP over a LASER embedding Schwenk et al. (2019) with the following hyper-parameters: two hidden layers with 100 parameters and ReLU activation functions, trained using the Adam stochastic gradient-based optimizer Kingma and Ba (2015) , dynamic batch sizes, and penalty of strength . 
 
 
 
 
 3 Results 

 
 Our results are presented in Table  2 .
Since the results are computed on different subsamples of data, we report error reductions over multinomial random (or, for Headlines , identity ) baselines , following previous work comparing system rankings across different samples Søgaard (2013) .
More formally, we present error reduction as , where and are the performances of the system at hand and the multinomial random baseline. 
 
 
 Our main observations are the following: (a) Random splits (and standard splits) consistently under-estimate error on new samples . The absolute differences between error reductions over random baselines for random splits and on new samples are often higher than 20%, and in the case of Probing-BShift , for example, the BERT model reduces 80% of the error of a random baseline when data is randomly split, but only 45% averaging over five samples of new data from the same domain. (b) Heuristic splits sometimes under-estimate error on new samples. Our heuristic splits in the above experiments are quite aggressive. We only evaluate our models on sentences that are longer than any of the sentences observed during training. Nevertheless for 5/7 tasks, this leads to more optimistic performance estimates than evaluating on new  samples!
(c) The same story holds for adversarial splits based on approximate maximization of Wasserstein distances between training and test data. While adversarial splits are very challenging, results on adversarial splits are more optimistic than on new samples in 4/7 cases. Note the fact that random splits over-estimate real-life performance also leads to misleading system rankings . If, for example, we remove the CRF inference layer from our POS tagger, performance on our Random splits drops to 0.952; on the New Sample , however, performance is 0.930, which is significantly better than with a CRF layer. 
 
 
 Discussion 

 
 In the spirit of earlier work Sakaguchi et al. (2017) ; Madnani and Cahill (2018) ; Gorman and Bedrick (2019) , we provide recommendations for future evaluation protocols: (i) In the absence of multiple held-out samples, using biased splits better approximates real-world performance and can help determine what data characteristics affect performance. (ii) Evaluating on new samples is superior and also enables significance testing across datasets Demsar (2006) , providing confidence estimates. Several benchmarks already provide multiple, diverse test sets ( Hovy et al., 2006 ; Petrov and McDonald, 2012 ; Williams et al., 2018 , e.g.) ; we hope more will follow. What explains the high variance across samples in NLP? One reason is the dimensionality of language Bengio et al. (2003) , but in §A.5 we also show significant impact of temporal drift. 
 
 
 
 Conclusions 

 
 We have shown that out-of-sample error can be hard to estimate from random splits, which tend to underestimate error by some margin, but even biased and adversarial splits sometimes underestimate error on new samples. We show this phenomenon across seven very different NLP tasks and provide practical recommendations on how to best bridge the gap between experimental practices and what is needed to produce truly robust NLP models that perform well in the wild. 
 
 
 
 
 Acknowledgments 

 
 We would like to thank our reviewers for their comments and for engaging in an interesting discussion. The paper also benefited greatly from discussions with several of our colleagues at Google Research, including Slav Petrov and Sascha Rothe. 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 Arjovsky et al. (2017) 
 
Martin Arjovsky, Soumith Chintala, and Leon Bottou. 2017.

 
 Wasserstein gan.

 
 In ICML .

 
 
 Ben-David et al. (2006) 
 
Shai Ben-David, John Blitzer, Koby Crammer, and Fernando Pereira. 2006.

 
 Analysis of representations for domain adaptation.

 
 In NeurIPS .

 
 
 Bengio et al. (2003) 
 
Yoshua Bengio, Réjean Ducharme, Pascal Vincent, and Christian Jauvin. 2003.

 
 A neural probabilistic language model.

 
 JMLR , 3:1137––1155.

 
 
 Borgwardt et al. (2006) 
 
Karsten M. Borgwardt, Arthur Gretton, Malte J. Rasch, Hans-Peter Kriegel,
Bernhard Schölkopf, and Alexander J. Smola. 2006.

 
 Integrating
structured biological data by kernel maximum mean discrepancy .

 
 In Proceedings 14th International Conference on Intelligent
Systems for Molecular Biology 2006, Fortaleza, Brazil, August 6-10, 2006 ,
pages 49–57.

 
 
 Conneau et al. (2018) 
 
Alexis Conneau, Germán Kruszewski, Guillaume Lample, Loïc
Barrault, and Marco Baroni. 2018.

 
 What you can cram into
a single \$&!#* vector: Probing sentence
embeddings for linguistic properties .

 
 In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, ACL 2018, Melbourne, Australia, July 15-20,
2018, Volume 1: Long Papers , pages 2126–2136.

 
 
 Demsar (2006) 
 
Janez Demsar. 2006.

 
 Statistical comparisons of classifiers over multiple data sets.

 
 Journal of Machine Learning Research , 7.

 
 
 Devlin et al. (2019) 
 
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019.

 
 BERT:
pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding .

 
 In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, NAACL-HLT 2019, Minneapolis, MN, USA, June 2-7, 2019, Volume
1 (Long and Short Papers) , pages 4171–4186.

 
 
 Efron (1981) 
 
Bradley Efron. 1981.

 
 Nonparametric estimates of standard error: the jackknife, the
bootstrap and other methods.

 
 Biometrika , 68.

 
 
 Elazar and Goldberg (2018) 
 
Yanai Elazar and Yoav Goldberg. 2018.

 
 Adversarial removal of demographic attributes from text data.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Geva et al. (2019) 
 
Mor Geva, Eric Malmi, Idan Szpektor, and Jonathan Berant. 2019.

 
 Discofuse: A large-scale dataset for discourse-based sentence fusion.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Gillick and Cox (1989) 
 
Larry Gillick and Stephen Cox. 1989.

 
 Some statistical issues in the comparison of speech recognition
algorithms.

 
 In ICASSP .

 
 
 Go et al. (2009) 
 
Alec Go, Richa Bhayani, and Lei Huang. 2009.

 
 Twitter sentiment classification using distant supervision.

 
 Processing , 150.

 
 
 Gorman and Bedrick (2019) 
 
Kyle Gorman and Steven Bedrick. 2019.

 
 We need to talk about standard splits.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Harbusch et al. (2003) 
 
Karin Harbusch, Sasa Hasan, Hajo Hoffman, Michael Kühn, and Bernhard
Schüler. 2003.

 
 Domain-specific disambiguation for typing with ambiguous keyboards.

 
 In EACL Workshop on Language Modeling for Text Entry Methods .

 
 
 Hovy et al. (2006) 
 
Eduard Hovy, Mitchell Marcus, Martha Palmer, Lance Ramshaw, and Ralph
Weischedel. 2006.

 
 OntoNotes: The
90% solution .

 
 In Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of
the NAACL, Companion Volume: Short Papers , pages 57–60, New York City,
USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Karimi et al. (2015) 
 
Sarvnaz Karimi, Jie Yin, and Jiri Baum. 2015.

 
 Squibs: Evaluation
methods for statistically dependent text .

 
 Computational Linguistics , 41(3):539–548.

 
 
 Kingma and Ba (2015) 
 
Diederik Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2015.

 
 Aadam: a method for stochastic optimization.

 
 In ICLR .

 
 
 Koehn and Knowles (2017) 
 
Philip Koehn and Rebecca Knowles. 2017.

 
 Six challenges for neural machine translation.

 
 In ACL Workshop on Neural Machine Translation .

 
 
 Lukes and Søgaard (2018) 
 
Jan Lukes and Anders Søgaard. 2018.

 
 Sentiment analysis
under temporal shift .

 
 In Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Computational Approaches
to Subjectivity, Sentiment and Social Media Analysis , pages 65–71,
Brussels, Belgium. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Luong et al. (2015) 
 
Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D. Manning. 2015.

 
 Effective approaches to
attention-based neural machine translation .

 
 In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing , pages 1412–1421, Lisbon, Portugal. Association
for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Madnani and Cahill (2018) 
 
Nitin Madnani and Aoife Cahill. 2018.

 
 Automated scoring: Beyond natural language processing.

 
 In COLING .

 
 
 Marcus et al. (1993) 
 
Mitch Marcus, Beatrice Santorini, and Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz. 1993.

 
 Building a large annotated corpus of english: The penn treebank.

 
 Computational Linguistics , 19.

 
 
 Nallapati et al. (2016) 
 
Ramesh Nallapati, Bowen Zhou, Cicero dos Santos, Çağlar
GuÌ‡lçehre, and Bing Xiang. 2016.

 
 Abstractive text
summarization using sequence-to-sequence RNNs and beyond .

 
 In Proceedings of The 20th SIGNLL Conference on Computational
Natural Language Learning , pages 280–290, Berlin, Germany. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Napoles et al. (2012) 
 
Courtney Napoles, Matthew Gormley, and Benjamin Van Durme. 2012.

 
 Annotated
Gigaword .

 
 In Proceedings of the Joint Workshop on Automatic Knowledge
Base Construction and Web-scale Knowledge Extraction (AKBC-WEKEX) , pages
95–100, Montréal, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Petrov and McDonald (2012) 
 
Slav Petrov and Ryan McDonald. 2012.

 
 Overview of the 2012
shared task on parsing the web .

 
 
 Poerner et al. (2018) 
 
Nina Poerner, Benjamin Roth, and Hinrich Schütze. 2018.

 
 Evaluating neural network explanation methods using hybrid documents
and morphosyntactic agreement.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Rijhwani and
Preotiuc-Pietro (2020) 
 
Shruti Rijhwani and Daniel Preotiuc-Pietro. 2020.

 
 Temporally-informed analysis of named entity recognition .

 
 In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics , pages 7605–7617, Online. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Rush et al. (2015) 
 
Alexander M. Rush, Sumit Chopra, and Jason Weston. 2015.

 
 A neural attention
model for abstractive sentence summarization .

 
 In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing , pages 379–389, Lisbon, Portugal. Association
for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Sakaguchi et al. (2017) 
 
Keisuke Sakaguchi, Courtney Napoles, and Joel Tetreault. 2017.

 
 Gec into the future: Where are we going and how do we get there?

 
 In BEA .

 
 
 Schwenk et al. (2019) 
 
Holger Schwenk, Guillaume Wenzek, Sergey Edunov, Edouard Grave, and Armand
Joulin. 2019.

 
 Ccmatrix: Mining billions of high-quality parallel sentences on the
web.

 
 In ArXiv .

 
 
 Sennrich et al. (2016) 
 
Rico Sennrich, Barry Haddow, and Alexandra Birch. 2016.

 
 Neural machine
translation of rare words with subword units .

 
 In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 1715–1725,
Berlin, Germany. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Shah et al. (2018) 
 
Darsh J Shah, Tao Lei, Alessandro Moschitti, Salvatore Romeo, and Preslav
Nakov. 2018.

 
 Adversarial domain adaptation for duplicate question detection.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 Shah et al. (2020) 
 
Deven Shah, Andrew Schwartz, and Dirk Hovy. 2020.

 
 Predictive biases in natural language processing models: A conceptual
framework and overview.

 
 In ACL .

 
 
 Shen et al. (2018) 
 
Jian Shen, Yanru Qu, Weinan Zhang, and Yong Yu. 2018.

 
 Wasserstein distance guided representation learning for domain
adaptation.

 
 In AAAI .

 
 
 Shimodaira (2000) 
 
Hidetoshi Shimodaira. 2000.

 
 Improving predictive inference under covariate shift by weighting the
log-likelihood function.

 
 Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference , 90.

 
 
 Siegelmann and Sontag (1992) 
 
Hava Siegelmann and Eduardo Sontag. 1992.

 
 On the computational power of neural nets.

 
 In COLT .

 
 
 Søgaard (2013) 
 
Anders Søgaard. 2013.

 
 Estimating effect size across datasets.

 
 In NAACL .

 
 
 Szymański and Gorman (2020) 
 
Piotr Szymański and Kyle Gorman. 2020.

 
 Is the best
better? Bayesian statistical model comparison for natural language
processing .

 
 In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) , pages 2203–2212, Online. Association
for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Tolstikhin et al. (2018) 
 
Ilya Tolstikhin, Olivier Bousquet, Sylvain Gelly, and Bernhard Schölkopf.
2018.

 
 Wasserstein auto-encoders.

 
 In ICLR .

 
 
 Williams et al. (2018) 
 
Adina Williams, Nikita Nangia, and Samuel Bowman. 2018.

 
 A broad-coverage
challenge corpus for sentence understanding through inference .

 
 In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers) , pages 1112–1122, New Orleans,
Louisiana. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 
 Wolpert (1996) 
 
David Wolpert. 1996.

 
 The lack of a priori distinctions between learning algorithms.

 
 Neural Computation , 8.

 
 
 Yu et al. (2019) 
 
Xintong Yu, Hongming Zhang, Yangqiu Song, Yan Song, and Changshui Zhang. 2019.

 
 What you see is what you get: Visual pronoun coreference resolution
in dialogues.

 
 In EMNLP .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A Appendices 

 
 We present supplementary details about two of our tasks in §A.1 and §A.2 and discuss variations over heuristic splits in §A.3. In §A.4, we present the pseudo-algorithm for how we compute adversarial splits, and finally, in §A.5, we present our results documenting temporal drift. 
 
 
 A.1 Headlines 

 
 Table 3 reports the error reduction in ROUGE-1, ROUGE-2 and ROUGE-L over the identity baseline (see §2) for the different data splits. The results are consistent with Table 2 . Figure 2 gives more details on an interesting drift phenomenon, which contributed to the superior performance of the model trained on the most recent five years (1999-2003). Apparently, the dotless spelling of U.S./US (’United States’) became more common over time. Consequently, the model trained on the 1999-2003 part generated US more frequently than the model trained on 1994-1998. 
 
 
 
 
 
 A.2 Quality Estimation 

 
 In the results above, we train and test our quality estimation regressor on Spanish-English from WMT QE 2014. We also ran a similar experiment where we used the German-English test data as our New Sample . Here, we see a similar pattern to the one above: The RMSE on the Standard split was 0.630, which is slightly higher than for Spanish-English; with our Heuristic split, RMSE is 0.652; for Adversarial , it is 0.626 (which is slightly better than with standard splits), and on our New Sample , RMSE is 0.813. 
 
 
 
 
 A.3 Alternative Heuristic Splits 

 
 For both SentEval tasks we experimented with the following alternatives for heuristic splits. 
 
 
 Bootstrap Resampling 

 
 Instead of cross-validation, a random split can be generated by bootstrap resampling. For this we randomly select 10% of the data as test set and then randomly sample (with replacement) a new training and dev set from the remaining examples. 
 
 
 
 Random Length 

 
 As alternative to the length threshold heuristic in earlier experiments we randomly sample a length and select all examples having this length to be part of the test set. We repeat this procedure until approximately 10% of the data ends up in the test set. With this procedure we create 5 different test sets. We included this heuristic in order to see how fragile the probing setup is. 
 
 
 
 Rare Words 

 
 Another alternative for heuristic splits is to use word frequency information. Here we assign those sentences containing at least one of the rarest words of the dataset to the test set. This way we end up again with approximately 10% of the data in the test set. Note that this way we create only 1 dataset, because it’s not a random process. 
 
 
 
 Results 

 
 Table  4 lists the results. While bootstrap resampling leads to slightly lower error reduction than cross-validation we decided to report the latter in the main part of this paper, because it is a more wide-spread way to randomly split datasets. Random Length results are comparable to standard splits results. The split based on word frequency (Rare Words) leads to considerable drop in both tasks. However, it is not as strong as the drop of the heuristic split (length threshold) in the main part of the paper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A.4 Computing adversarial splits 

 
 We present the pseudo-algorithm of our implementation of approximate Wasserstein splitting in Algorithm  1 . We also make the corresponding code available as part of our code repository for this paper. 
 
 
 
 A.5 The significance of drift 

 
 Some of our splits in the main experiments were based on slicing data into different time periods ( Headlines , Emojis ). Since temporal drift is a potential explanation for sampling bias, we analyze this in more detail here. We show that temporal drift is pervasive and leads to surprising drops in performance. We note, however, that temporal drift is not the only cause of sampling bias, of course. Since we have time stamps for two of our datasets we study these in greater detail. For similar studies of temporal drift, see Lukes and Søgaard (2018) ; Rijhwani and
Preotiuc-Pietro (2020) . 
 
 
 Headline generation 

 
 Our headline generation data covers the years 1994 to 2004. Having reserved 20,000 sentence-headline pairs from the first half of 2004 for validation and the same amount from the second half for testing, we use 50% of the years 1994-2003 for training three models. The models’ architectures and parameters are identical (same as in Sec. 3). The only difference is in what the models are trained on: (a) a random half, (b) the first, or (c) the second half of 1994-2003. The training data sizes are comparable (1.63-1.76M), the publisher distributions (AFP, APW, CNA, NYT or XIN) are also similar. Hence, the models are expected to perform similarly on the same test set. 
 
 
 
 As Table  5 indicates, shifting the training data by five years to the past results in a big performance drop. Sampling training data randomly or taking the most recent period produces models with similar ROUGE scores, both much better than the identity baseline. However, about half of the gap to the identity baseline disappears when older training data is taken. In the §A.1, we give an example of temporal drift in the Headlines data: US largely replaces U.S. in the newer training set and the test set. 
 
 
 
 Emoji prediction 

 
 For emoji prediction, Go et al. (2009) provide data for a temporal span of 62 days. We split the data into single days and keep the splits with more than 25,000 datapoints in which both classes are represented. We use the last of these, June 16, as our test sample and vary the training data from the first day to the day before June 16. Figure  3 (left) visualizes the results. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
