 
 
 
 Appendix - Recommended Statistical Significance Tests for NLP Tasks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 References 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: arXiv.org perpetual non-exclusive license
 
 
arXiv:1809.01448v1 [cs.CL] 05 Sep 2018 
 
 
 Appendix - Recommended Statistical Significance Tests for NLP Tasks 
 
 
 Rotem Dror
 
    
 Roi Reichart
 
 Affiliation: Faculty of Industrial Engineering and Management, Technion, IIT
 
 Email: {rtmdrr@campus$|$roiri}.technion.ac.il 
 

 Abstract 
 
 Statistical significance testing plays an important role when drawing conclusions from experimental results in NLP papers. Particularly, it is a valuable tool when one would like to establish the superiority of one algorithm over another. This appendix complements the guide for testing statistical significance in NLP presented in [ 5 ] by proposing valid statistical tests for the common tasks and evaluation measures in the field. 
 
 
 
 
 
 This document is an annex to the paper "The Hitchhiker’s Guide to Testing Statistical Significance in Natural Language Processing".Rotem Dror, Gili Baumer, Segev Shlomov and Roi Reichart (ACL 2018). Please cite: 
 @inproceedings{dror2018hitchhiker,
   title={The Hitchhiker’s Guide to Testing Statistical Significance in Natural Language Processing},
   author={Dror, Rotem and Baumer, Gili and Shlomov, Segev and Reichart, Roi},
   booktitle={Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume   1: Long Papers)},
   volume={1},
   pages={1383–1392},
   year={2018}
 } 
 
 
 
 Statistical Significance Test Table 

 
 For each evaluation measure, the following table presents valid statistical tests 
 1 
 
 
 
 A statistical test is called valid if it guarantees that the probability of making type one error is bounded by a pre-defined constant. See [ 5 ] for a detailed explanation. and explanations about the assumptions made when using each test.
Our recommendations are based on the considerations discussed in [ 5 ] . We will be happy to get feedback about their validity in case the reader does not found our considerations to hold. 
 
 
 Notice that for each measure we present both parametric and non-parametric tests that can be used under certain assumptions.
The parametric tests discussed here assume that the data is normally distributed. This assumption is likely to hold when using evaluation measures that calculate an average of counts of correct classifications.
When the normality assumption that accompanies these tests holds in practice, they have higher statistical power than their non-parametric counterparts proposed in the table, hence it is recommended to use them. Otherwise, one should use non-parametric tests that do not make any such assumptions (we marked cases where it is unlikely to assume normality by — in the parametric test column). 
 
 
 For example, in the case of precision, recall and F-score, [ 14 ] described why the t-test can only be used for the recall metric but not for the precision and F-score measures. For other evaluation measures, one can test if the data is normally distributed by applying statistical tests that check for normality (see [ 5 ] for more details). In this table, we only mention a parametric test when we consider it likely to assume normality. 
 
 
 Additionally, when comparing the performance of two algorithms that are applied on the same dataset, one should use the paired version of the statistical significance test (such as the matched-pair t-test). An implementation of the paired versions of all statistical tests presented here as well as of other tests can be found at https://github.com/rtmdrr/testSignificanceNLP . 
 
 
 
 
 
 Assumptions and Comments 

 
 
 1. 
 
 t-test: assuming that an average count of correct classifications is normally distributed. 
 
 2. 
 
 Bootstrap: assuming the dataset is representative of the whole population. I.e., the data sample should be big enough to cover many use-cases and represent the domain in a satisfactory manner. 
 
 3. 
 
 Fisher transformation: . 
 
 • 
 
 For Spearman: approximately follows a standard normal distribution. 
 
 • 
 
 For Pearson: the Fisher transformation approximately follows a normal distribution with a mean of and a standard deviation of , where is the sample size. One can use this to apply z-test to test for significance. 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 UAS and LAS are actually accuracy measures. 
 
 5. 
 
 Wilcoxon signed-rank test: since the number of possible predictions (vocabulary words) a language model may make can be very large, the non-sampling non-parametric tests are preferable. 
 
 6. 
 
 See [ 14 ] for explanations. 
 
 7. 
 
 All measures used for evaluating coreference resolution are functions of precision and recall. Since parametric tests are not suitable in the case of precision, these tests are also not valid for these measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 [1] 
 
Amit Bagga and Breck Baldwin.

 
 Algorithms for scoring coreference chains.

 
 In The first international conference on language resources and
evaluation workshop on linguistics coreference , volume 1, pages 563–566.
Granada, 1998.

 
 
 [2] 
 
Satanjeev Banerjee and Alon Lavie.

 
 Meteor: An automatic metric for mt evaluation with improved
correlation with human judgments.

 
 In Proceedings of the ACL workshop on intrinsic and extrinsic
evaluation measures for machine translation and/or summarization , pages
65–72, 2005.

 
 
 [3] 
 
David L Chen and William B Dolan.

 
 Collecting highly parallel data for paraphrase evaluation.

 
 In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies-Volume 1 , pages
190–200. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2011.

 
 
 [4] 
 
Jacob Cohen.

 
 A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales.

 
 Educational and psychological measurement , 20(1):37–46, 1960.

 
 
 [5] 
 
Rotem Dror, Gili Baumer, Segev Shlomov, and Roi Reichart.

 
 The hitchhiker’s guide to testing statistical significance in
natural language processing.

 
 In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , volume 1, pages
1383–1392, 2018.

 
 
 [6] 
 
Klaus Krippendorff.

 
 Computing krippendorff’s alpha-reliability.

 
 2011.

 
 
 [7] 
 
Sandra Kübler, Ryan McDonald, and Joakim Nivre.

 
 Dependency parsing.

 
 Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Technologies , 1(1):1–127,
2009.

 
 
 [8] 
 
Heeyoung Lee, Marta Recasens, Angel Chang, Mihai Surdeanu, and Dan Jurafsky.

 
 Joint entity and event coreference resolution across documents.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning ,
pages 489–500. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2012.

 
 
 [9] 
 
Chin-Yew Lin.

 
 Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries.

 
 Text Summarization Branches Out , 2004.

 
 
 [10] 
 
Xiaoqiang Luo.

 
 On coreference resolution performance metrics.

 
 In Proceedings of the conference on human language technology
and empirical methods in natural language processing , pages 25–32.
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2005.

 
 
 [11] 
 
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.

 
 Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation.

 
 In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting on association for
computational linguistics , pages 311–318. Association for Computational
Linguistics, 2002.

 
 
 [12] 
 
Ramakrishna Vedantam, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh.

 
 Cider: Consensus-based image description evaluation.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition , pages 4566–4575, 2015.

 
 
 [13] 
 
Marc Vilain, John Burger, John Aberdeen, Dennis Connolly, and Lynette
Hirschman.

 
 A model-theoretic coreference scoring scheme.

 
 In Proceedings of the 6th conference on Message understanding ,
pages 45–52. Association for Computational Linguistics, 1995.

 
 
 [14] 
 
Alexander Yeh.

 
 More accurate tests for the statistical significance of result
differences.

 
 In Proceedings of the 18th conference on Computational
linguistics-Volume 2 , pages 947–953. Association for Computational
Linguistics, 2000.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
