 
 
 
 Fluid Language Model Benchmarking 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 2 Preliminaries: Benchmark Refinement 
 
 2.1 Evaluation is Selection, Scoring, and Aggregation 
 2.2 Dimensions of Evaluation Quality 
 
 3 Methodology: Fluid Benchmarking 
 
 3.1 Measuring Language Model Performance in Latent Ability Space 
 
 Formulation. 
 
 3.2 Dynamic Selection of Evaluation Items 
 
 Formulation. 
 
 
 4 Experiments 
 
 4.1 Experimental Setup 
 4.2 Evaluation Measures 
 4.3 Baselines 
 
 5 Results 
 
 Validity. 
 Variance. 
 Saturation. 
 Efficiency. 
 
 6 Analysis and Discussion 
 
 Fluid Benchmarking Avoids Mislabeled Items. 
 Fluid Benchmarking Adapts Items to Language Model Capability. 
 Fluid Benchmarking Delays Onset of Benchmark Saturation. 
 Dynamic Stopping. 
 The False False Promise of Item Response Theory. 
 Extension to Other Settings. 
 Generalization Beyond Train Language Models. 
 
 7 Related Work 
 8 Conclusion 
 References 
 A Item Characteristic Curves 
 B Fisher Information of HellaSwag Items 
 C Checkpoint Details 
 D Language Model Inclusion Criteria 
 E Item Response Model Details 
 F Breakdown of Results by Benchmark and Language Model 
 G Variance and Saturation Plots 
 H Comparison Against Full-Benchmark Accuracy 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: CC BY 4.0
 
 
arXiv:2509.11106v1 [cs.CL] 14 Sep 2025 
 
 
 Fluid Language Model Benchmarking 
 
 
 Valentin Hofmann   David Heineman   Ian Magnusson   Kyle Lo 
 
 Affiliation:  Jesse Dodge   Maarten Sap   Pang Wei Koh   Chun Wang 
 
 Affiliation:  Hannaneh Hajishirzi   Noah A. Smith 
 
 Affiliation:  Allen Institute for AI  University of Washington  Carnegie Mellon University
 

 Abstract 
 
 Language model (LM) benchmarking faces several challenges: comprehensive evaluations are costly, benchmarks often fail to measure the intended capabilities, and evaluation quality can degrade due to labeling errors and benchmark saturation. Although various strategies have been proposed to mitigate these issues, they tend to address individual aspects in isolation, neglecting broader questions about overall evaluation quality. Here, we introduce Fluid Benchmarking , a new
evaluation approach
that advances LM benchmarking across multiple dimensions. Inspired by psychometrics, Fluid Benchmarking is based on the insight that the relative value of benchmark items depends on an LM’s capability level, suggesting that evaluation should adapt to each LM.
Methodologically, Fluid Benchmarking estimates an item response model based on existing LM evaluation results and uses the inferred quantities to select evaluation items dynamically , similar to computerized adaptive testing in education. In our experiments, we compare Fluid Benchmarking against the common practice of random item sampling as well as more sophisticated baselines, including alternative methods grounded in item response theory. We examine four dimensions—efficiency, validity, variance, and saturation—and find that Fluid Benchmarking achieves superior performance in all of them (e.g., higher validity and less variance on MMLU with fifty times fewer items). Our analysis shows that the two components of Fluid Benchmarking have distinct effects: item response theory, used to map performance into a latent ability space, increases validity, while dynamic item selection reduces variance. Overall, our results suggest that LM benchmarking can be substantially improved by moving beyond static evaluation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 

 
 The field of language model (LM) evaluation is experiencing a moment of crisis. With new benchmarks being released by the day, it becomes increasingly difficult to decide which benchmark(s) to pick for a certain evaluation goal ( Ni et al., 2024 ; Perlitz et al., 2024b ) . At the same time, evaluating LMs on ever-growing sets of benchmarks leads to substantial computational—and, consequently, financial and environmental—costs ( Liang et al., 2023 ) , all while producing brittle results that fluctuate due to evaluation noise ( Madaan et al., 2024 ; Mizrahi et al., 2024 ) . More alarmingly, it is often unclear whether a specific benchmark in fact measures the capability that it purports to evaluate ( Liao et al., 2021 ; Saxon et al., 2024 ) , a problem exacerbated by labeling errors ( Northcutt et al., 2021 ; Gema et al., 2024 ; Vendrow et al., 2025 ) and benchmark saturation, when many LMs are scoring near the maximum on a benchmark ( Vania et al., 2021 ; Xia et al., 2024 ) . 
 
 
 These challenges have spurred various efforts to improve benchmarking, by increasing efficiency ( Perlitz et al., 2024a ; Polo et al., 2024 ; Vivek et al., 2024 ; Kipnis et al., 2025 ) , detecting and correcting mislabeled items ( Gema et al., 2024 ; Vendrow et al., 2025 ) , reducing evaluation variance ( Madaan et al., 2024 ) , and enhancing benchmark difficulty ( Suzgun et al., 2023 ; Gupta et al., 2024 ; Paech, 2024 ) . However, most of these studies have addressed individual aspects of evaluation quality in isolation, sometimes with unintended negative consequences—for example, Madaan et al. (2024) showed that efficient benchmarking methods can increase evaluation variance between training runs with different random seeds, thus reducing benchmarks’ practical utility. 
 
 
 In this paper, we propose Fluid Benchmarking , a new benchmarking method that improves evaluation across multiple relevant dimensions. Fluid Benchmarking is based on the insight that the relative value of benchmark items depends on an LM’s capability level; for example, a hard question might be too difficult for a weak LM, but informative for a strong LM. Fluid Benchmarking integrates item response theory ( Lord, 1980 ; van der Linden & Hambleton, 1997 ; DeMars, 2010 , IRT;) , which represents performance in a latent ability space, with methods from computerized adaptive testing used in education ( Meijer & Nering, 1999 ; Chang, 2015 ; Magis et al., 2017 ) : IRT draws upon existing LM evaluation results to enrich benchmarks with information about item difficulty and discrimination, which is
leveraged to dynamically select items that match an LM’s capability level (Figure  1 ). This contrasts with the until now universal practice of what we call static benchmarking, which assumes a globally optimal set of evaluation items for all LMs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 1 : (a) Given a benchmark , we train an IRT model on publicly available LM evaluation results, providing useful information about individual items (specifically, about difficulty and discrimination). The figure illustrates this with results for four LMs and difficulty, symbolized by item darkness. In practice, we use more than a hundred LMs. (b)  Fluid Benchmarking leverages the IRT-enriched benchmark in two ways: it uses item difficulty and discrimination to (i) dynamically select an item subset that matches a given LM’s capability profile —easier items are routed to the weaker LM , more difficult items to the stronger LM —and (ii) represent a given LM’s performance in a latent ability space rather than standard accuracy space. (c, d) Compared to baselines such as evaluating on a random subset of items ( Random ), Fluid Benchmarking improves benchmarking in various ways: it substantially decreases step-to-step evaluation variance, exemplified by training curves of Pythia-2.8B evaluated on ARC Challenge with 30 items (c), while at the same time increasing the external validity of evaluation, shown as the mean rank distance between an LM’s predicted and true rank (d). See text for more details.
 
 
 
 In our experiments, we investigate how different methods for improving evaluation affect the efficiency , validity , variance , and saturation of benchmarks. We specifically focus on LM evaluation during pretraining , a key application of benchmarking. We evaluate six LMs on six benchmarks, comparing Fluid Benchmarking against a broad set of methods proposed in prior work. We find that Fluid Benchmarking consistently outperforms all baselines across all dimensions of evaluation quality. For example, compared to the common practice of random item sampling,
 Fluid Benchmarking improves validity and lowers step-to-step variance on MMLU using fifty times fewer items . Our analysis attributes these gains to the complementary effects of the two key components of Fluid Benchmarking : IRT enhances validity, while dynamic item selection reduces variance. 
 
 
 
 2 Preliminaries: Benchmark Refinement 

 
 In this paper, we introduce benchmark refinement as the problem of improving benchmarking by optimizing (i) the selection of evaluation items as well as (ii) the aggregation of their results into benchmark-level scores. We argue that many existing efforts in LM evaluation, previously considered in isolation, can be productively unified under this umbrella. 
 
 
 2.1 Evaluation is Selection, Scoring, and Aggregation 

 
 Let be an LM that is to be evaluated on a benchmark . We refer to the elements as items . In a general form, evaluating on can be expressed as 
 
 where is a selection function that determines the set of evaluation items, is a scoring function that quantifies LM performance on each item in the evaluation set, and is an aggregation function applied over the item-level scores. For notational convenience, we denote the evaluation set as , which may be a subset, superset, or identical to . If is a binary function, returns the mean of the item-level scores, and , we recover the standard accuracy metric commonly used in LM benchmarking, which we denote as . 
 
 
 With Equation  1 , we can break down LM evaluation into two components: item-level scoring and benchmark-level aggregation . While evaluation quality can be improved at both levels, many studies take item-level scores as given and focus on improving benchmark-level aggregation. The present line of work asks: how can we improve LM evaluation through the choice of both (i) the selection function and/or (ii) the aggregation function ? We refer to this problem as benchmark refinement . 
 
 
 
 2.2 Dimensions of Evaluation Quality 

 
 What aspects of evaluation can be improved through benchmark refinement? In this paper, we focus on four dimensions, each motivated by prior work: 
 
 – 
 
 Efficiency. Evaluation can be made more efficient by selecting a small evaluation set , with . Prior work has explored random sampling ( Perlitz et al., 2024a ) , item clustering ( Polo et al., 2024 ; Vivek et al., 2024 ) , heuristic filtering ( Gupta et al., 2024 ) , and information filtering ( Kipnis et al., 2025 ) . Several studies have paired this with modifying ( Polo et al., 2024 ; Kipnis et al., 2025 ) . 
 
 – 
 
 Validity. As a means of measuring an underlying capability in LMs, a benchmark should be predictive of LM behavior beyond the benchmark itself. Prior work has explored different ways to increase benchmark validity via —for example, by removing and replacing items in that trivially fail to measure the intended capability, such as mislabeled items ( Northcutt et al., 2021 ; Gema et al., 2024 ; Vendrow et al., 2025 ) . 
 
 – 
 
 Variance. If evaluation results on a benchmark fluctuate significantly due to evaluation noise (e.g., metric instability), the benchmark becomes less useful in many practical settings, such as tracking progress during training. While it has been shown that removing items with low discriminative power from can reduce variance, attempts to modify have so far proven less effective ( Madaan et al., 2024 ) . 
 
 – 
 
 Saturation. Given the rapid improvement in LM capabilities, frontier models often solve most items in benchmarks within a short time, limiting their practical value ( Vania et al., 2021 ; Liang et al., 2023 ) . This saturation has motivated the development of more challenging benchmark variants by choosing such that it focuses on more difficult items ( Suzgun et al., 2023 ; Gupta et al., 2024 ; Paech, 2024 ) . 
 
 
 In § 4.2 , we operationalize each of these dimensions into metrics. 
 
 
 
 
 3 Methodology: Fluid Benchmarking 

 
 We introduce Fluid Benchmarking , a new method for benchmark refinement that departs from prior work (i) by changing such that LM performance is represented in a latent ability space rather than the standard accuracy space (§ 3.1 ), and (ii) by choosing to dynamically adjust the subset of evaluation items to an LM (§ 3.2 ). 
 
 
 3.1 Measuring Language Model Performance in Latent Ability Space 

 
 Over the past several decades, research in psychometrics has developed a suite of methods to address the challenges discussed in the previous section, which arise in a similar form in human testing. We argue that psychometric methods can be fruitfully applied to the evaluation of LMs. In particular, we draw upon item response theory ( Lord, 1980 ; van der Linden & Hambleton, 1997 ; DeMars, 2010 , IRT;) , which represents test takers in a latent ability space. The specific IRT model we use is a two-parameter logistic (2PL) model ( Lord, 1952 ; Birnbaum, 1968 ) . Before providing a formal definition, we begin with a quick overview of the advantages of IRT-based ability estimates over accuracy. 
 
 
 The key property that distinguishes IRT-based ability estimates from accuracy is that IRT takes item characteristics into account, whereas accuracy treats all items equally. In the 2PL model that we consider here, the two item characteristics are: 
 
 – 
 
 Item difficulty. Correctly answering an easy item has a different impact on ability estimates than correctly answering a difficult item. 
 
 – 
 
 Item discrimination. Items exhibit varying rates at which the likelihood of a correct response increases with ability. Low-discrimination items are often problematic—for example, we find empirically that many of them are mislabeled (see § 6 ). 
 
 
 
 
 These features might be beneficial for benchmark refinement. In terms of efficiency , item parameters provide a principled basis for selecting . Item discrimination potentially offers dual benefits: it could enhance validity by reducing the impact of mislabeled items, while simultaneously decreasing variance by placing less weight on items that inconsistently differentiate between similar LMs. Finally, the fact that difficult items affect ability estimates differently than easy items could delay saturation effects, as differences in performance among strong LMs on difficult items are better captured than by accuracy. 
 
 
 Formulation. 

 
 Let be a set of LMs that have been evaluated on a benchmark . Assuming items with two outcomes, the probability that an LM answers item correctly can be modeled as a Bernoulli random variable , where (success) iff the LM’s answer is correct. The probability that is modeled as 
 
 where the parameter corresponds to the ability of LM , and the item is characterized by parameters (discrimination) and (difficulty). Equation  2 is commonly visualized using so-called item characteristic curves (see Appendix  A for examples). For model estimation, we assume local independence and maximize the probability of the full response matrix using Markov chain Monte Carlo ( Junker et al., 2016 ) , with hierarchical priors on all parameters as suggested by Natesan et al. (2016) . 
 
 
 Given a fitted 2PL model, the item parameters and can be used to estimate the ability of a previously unevaluated LM by maximizing 
 
 Here, the item parameters and are treated as fixed. We use maximum a posteriori estimation ( Birnbaum, 1969 ) to determine . Equation  3 defines a benchmark-level aggregation as in Equation  1 , with and . We denote this form of model evaluation as , which constitutes one of the two methodological pillars of Fluid Benchmarking . 
 
 
 So far we have only modified , not , but IRT allows for a principled way to dynamically adapt to an LM. Next, we present a method how to do so. 
 
 
 
 
 3.2 Dynamic Selection of Evaluation Items 

 
 Benchmarks are used to monitor performance during pretraining, when LMs are undergoing rapid development. Can the same be optimal for both a near-random word predictor (early in training) and a highly capable model? 
 
 
 One way to approach this question is by examining the informativeness of items with respect to the ability estimate for a given LM, which can be formalized using Fisher information ( Reckase, 2009 ) . In the case of the 2PL model, this is given by 
 
 
 
 
 It can be shown that items with higher Fisher information yield more precise ability estimates ( Reckase, 2009 ) , and they should be prioritized in . 
 
 
 To analyze how the informativeness of items change
as a function of LM ability, we examine HellaSwag ( Zellers et al., 2019 ) . We consider the scenario of pretraining mentioned above and simulate a training run with 50 checkpoints. In Figure  2 , we show how the Fisher information distributes over HellaSwag items as a function of training progress. The subset of items with the highest Fisher information substantially changes over the course of the training run, from very easy items at the beginning of training, to very difficult items at the end of training. These findings suggest that adapting to the capability level of an LM could result in more precise ability estimates compared to using a static set of items. 
 
 
 Formulation. 

 
 Inspired by these observations, we draw upon methods developed in the education-research context of computerized adaptive testing ( Meijer & Nering, 1999 ; Chang, 2015 ; Magis et al., 2017 ) to adapt to the capability level of an LM . Specifically, we evaluate the LM by iteratively selecting the item from with the highest Fisher information given the current ability estimate, 
 
 We repeat this procedure until the total number of administered items has reached the budgeted size for , at which point we let . Using Equation  5 for , we compute as the final evaluation score. 
 
 
 Dynamically selecting items based on Fisher information is expected to reinforce the very properties that make IRT-based methods promising for LM evaluation to begin with. For example, given that (Equation  4 ), low-discrimination items are unlikely to be included in . Similarly, because is maximized when (where ), dynamic selection naturally adapts to the capability level of an LM, evaluating weaker LMs on easier items and stronger LMs on more difficult ones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 Experiments 

 
 4.1 Experimental Setup 

 
 In this paper, we focus on LM evaluation during pretraining . While the four dimensions of benchmark refinement, introduced in § 2 , are relevant across evaluative settings, pretraining provides a particularly suitable testbed, as it allows for straightforward quantification and measurement of each dimension (see § 4.2 ). 
 
 
 More specifically, we examine the pretraining runs of six LMs with publicly available checkpoints. Our main focus lies on 7B LMs, for which we pick Amber-6.7B ( Liu et al., 2023 ) , OLMo1-7B ( Groeneveld et al., 2024 ) , OLMo2-7B ( OLMo et al., 2025 ) , and Pythia-6.9B ( Biderman et al., 2023 ) . We also examine a smaller LM, specifically Pythia-2.8B ( Biderman et al., 2023 ) , as well as a larger LM, specifically K2-65B ( Liu et al., 2025 ) . For each LM, we evenly select between 61 and 94 checkpoints (see Appendix  C for more details). 
 
 
 In terms of benchmarks, we focus on the Open LLM Leaderboard ( Beeching et al., 2023 ) , which comprises ARC Challenge ( Clark et al., 2018 ) , GSM8K ( Cobbe et al., 2021 ) , HellaSwag ( Zellers et al., 2019 ) , MMLU ( Hendrycks et al., 2021 ) , TruthfulQA ( Lin et al., 2022 ) , and WinoGrande ( Sakaguchi et al., 2020 ) . For the IRT models underlying Fluid Benchmarking , we fit 2PL models to the evaluation results of LMs contained in the Open LLM Leaderboard. We exclude the six test LMs and related models (e.g., OLMo1-1B), as well as posttrained models, since our experiments focus on evaluation during LM pretraining. This results in a final set of 102 LMs used for IRT model training (see Appendix  D for the full inclusion criteria). We fit separate unidimensional IRT models for each benchmark; we initially experimented with multidimensional models as well as a single unidimensional model across all benchmarks, but these approaches yielded worse results (see Appendix E for details). 
 
 
 We then evaluate all checkpoints of the six selected LMs on the six benchmarks and vary the evaluation strategy (see § 4.3 ). In total, we examine 2,802 checkpoint-benchmark combinations, resulting in over 13 million item-level evaluations. 
 
 
 
 4.2 Evaluation Measures 

 
 We operationalize the four dimensions of evaluation quality introduced in § 2 as follows: 
 
 – 
 
 Efficiency. We measure efficiency by systematically varying the number of items used for evaluating on a benchmark (i.e., the size of ). We explore a range of subset sizes, varying from 10 to 500 items per benchmark. 
 
 – 
 
 Validity. We evaluate validity by testing how well estimated performance on one benchmark predicts performance on a different benchmark that targets the same capability. Specifically, we compute the distance between an LMs’ predicted ranks on the two benchmarks. We always calculate the rank for the second benchmark based on accuracy. We examine ARC Challenge and MMLU, which assess knowledge and reasoning, and HellaSwag and WinoGrande, which assess commonsense reasoning. 
 
 – 
 
 Variance. We measure the step-to-step variance of the training curve for a combination of LM and benchmark. Specifically, let represent the measured performance (e.g., accuracy) on benchmark for model at a certain checkpoint . We measure the normalized total variation, 
 
 where a lower value means lower variance and hence better evaluation quality. 
 
 – 
 
 Saturation. To measure the saturation of
a benchmark under a given evaluation strategy, we compute the monotonicity of the training curve, defined as the absolute Spearman rank correlation between the sequence of checkpoints and the predicted performance values (e.g., accuracies). More monotonic training curves indicate that increased pretraining consistently yields better performance, suggesting that the benchmark has not yet saturated (at least for LMs within the considered capability range). 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.3 Baselines 

 
 We compare against several previous benchmark refinement methods. First, we examine Anchor Points ( Vivek et al., 2024 ) , a method for efficient evaluation based on item clustering. We use the Open LLM Leaderboard to cluster the benchmarks and consider two subset sizes in the range examined by the authors (10 and 50). We also examine two IRT-based methods, TinyBenchmarks ( Polo et al., 2024 ) and Metabench ( Kipnis et al., 2025 ) , and compare directly against their subsets and evaluation tools. In terms of methods for increasing difficulty, we include the hard versions of ARC Challenge and MMLU from Smart ( Gupta et al., 2024 ) and Magi ( Paech, 2024 ) , respectively. 
 
 
 Fluid Benchmarking differs from prior methods through its
 (§ 3.1 ) and its (§ 3.2 ). To disentangle these factors, we consider a baseline in which we ablate and compute an ability estimate based on a random subset of items ( Random Irt ). In addition, we consider a baseline in which we ablate both and , using a random subset of items to compute accuracy ( Random ), a popular approach for efficient evaluation ( Liang et al., 2023 ; Gu et al., 2024 ; Perlitz et al., 2024a ) . 
 
 
 
 
 5 Results 

 
 
 Fluid Benchmarking outperforms all baselines across all dimensions and sample sizes, often by a wide margin (see Appendix  F for breakdowns by benchmark and LM). 
 
 
 Validity. 

 
 Table  1 (top panel) shows that Fluid Benchmarking leads to smaller rank distances than all baselines. It outperforms Anchor Points , Smart , and Magi by wide margins, almost halving the mean rank distance of Anchor Points . The IRT-based methods are better, but Fluid Benchmarking still outperforms them. 
 
 
 Table  2 (top panel) shows that ablating the dynamic selection of items ( Fluid Benchmarking vs. Random Irt ) results in lowered validity, but the gap diminishes with more items. This is expected since (dynamic) approximates (static) as the number of items increases, resulting in converging ability estimates. Ablating the IRT-based ability estimation ( Random vs. Random Irt ) leads to a much bigger drop in validity (see Figure  1(d) ), suggesting that the information provided by IRT is particularly beneficial for improving the predictiveness of performance estimates. This is also supported by the high validity of the two IRT-based baselines TinyBenchmarks and Metabench . 
 
 
 
 
 Variance. 

 
 Table  1 (mid panel) shows that Fluid Benchmarking outperforms all baselines in terms of step-to-step variance. This trend holds consistently across LMs, benchmarks, and subset sizes (see Appendix  G for details). Figure  1(c) illustrates this with the evaluation of Pythia-2.8B on ARC Challenge, using 30 items. Interestingly, the gap between TinyBenchmarks and Metabench on the one hand, and the remaining baselines on the other, is much less pronounced than for validity—the two methods even lead to worse results for variance (e.g., TinyBenchmarks /100 items: 30.5 vs. Random /100 items: 19.8). 
 
 
 Table  2 (mid panel) reflects this trend: the gap is smaller between Random and Random Irt than between Random Irt and Fluid Benchmarking —on 500 items, Random Irt even leads to a higher variance than Random . This suggests that the key to Fluid Benchmarking ’s low variance lies in its dynamic item selection, which is consistent with psychometric theory: since the variance of ability estimates is inversely proportional to test information ( Lord, 1983 ) , and since Fluid Benchmarking selects highly informative items, the resulting measurement error is substantially reduced. 
 
 
 
 Saturation. 

 
 Tables  1 and 2 show that Fluid Benchmarking consistently outperforms
all baselines in terms of saturation as well (see Appendix  G for details). Smart and Magi perform better than some of the other baselines, suggesting that these methods partially mitigate the saturation problem, yet Fluid Benchmarking addresses it more effectively. 
 
 
 
 Efficiency. 

 
 Taking a global look at the results, we observe that Fluid Benchmarking leads to improvements across all subset sizes, but is especially effective for small sample sizes. For example, with 500 items Fluid Benchmarking improves the mean rank distance (validity) of Random by 0.8, but with 10 items by 9.9. 
 
 
 In Appendix H , we show that Fluid Benchmarking can improve evaluation quality even when efficiency is not a concern, outperforming full-benchmark accuracy. 
 
 
 
 
 6 Analysis and Discussion 

 
 Fluid Benchmarking Avoids Mislabeled Items. 

 
 To test whether Fluid Benchmarking indeed avoids problematic instances such as mislabeled questions, we leverage MMLU-Redux ( Gema et al., 2024 ) , a recent effort that annotated MMLU questions for label errors. We compute the average number of mislabeled items in Fluid Benchmarking and Random ( ) across all LMs and checkpoints, finding
that it is nearly two orders of magnitude smaller in the former (0.01) than in the latter (0.75)—in other words, while it takes roughly 100 benchmarking sessions for a mislabeled item to appear with Fluid Benchmarking , one occurs in nearly every session with Random . This suggests that Fluid Benchmarking is highly effective at avoiding mislabeled items. 
 
 
 
 Fluid Benchmarking Adapts Items to Language Model Capability. 

 
 To test whether item selection indeed dynamically adapts to the capability level of a given LM, we analyze how item selection changes as an LM gets better over the course of pretraining. Figure  3 visualizes the items selected for Fluid Benchmarking ( ) with OLMo1-7B evaluated on HellaSwag. We observe a substantial shift in the selected items: initially, items are very easy, but they get gradually more difficult as the LM improves. 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 4 : Training curves of OLMo2-7B (HellaSwag/500 items) with Random (a) and Fluid Benchmarking (b). The figures plot the final 30% of training. While performance in accuracy space shows no meaningful improvement (a), performance in ability space continues to provide a clear learning signal through the end of training (b). 
 
 
 
 Fluid Benchmarking Delays Onset of Benchmark Saturation. 

 
 To test whether Fluid Benchmarking indeed delays the onset of benchmark saturation, we focus on HellaSwag ( ). Figure  4(a) shows OLMo2-7B’s performance during the final 30% of the training run, measured with Random . Performance is already high by the 70% mark and does not show a consistent upward trend thereafter, instead fluctuating around the same level. By contrast, with Fluid Benchmarking (see Figure  4(b) ), performance continues to improve steadily through the end of training, suggesting that Fluid Benchmarking effectively mitigates early benchmark saturation. This difference is captured by our measure of saturation: for the entire training run, the monotonicity of the HellaSwag curve is 0.91 for Random , compared to 0.99 for Fluid Benchmarking . 
 
 
 
 
 Dynamic Stopping. 

 
 A further advantage of Fluid Benchmarking is its support for dynamic stopping. In Figure  5 , we demonstrate this with OLMo1-7B and HellaSwag, where we use the standard error of the ability estimate as the stopping criterion ( Magis et al., 2017 ) . Specifically, we terminate the evaluation once the standard error falls below the average ability gap between two rank-adjacent LMs on the Open LLM Leaderboard. The number of items required to reach this precision varies substantially over training, from around 20 at the beginning to over 80 midway, indicating that the common practice of using a fixed number of evaluation items is suboptimal. 
 
 
 
 The False False Promise of Item Response Theory. 

 
 Madaan et al. (2024) criticized IRT-based benchmark refinement methods for increasing variance, speaking of a “false promise of item response theory” for LMs. Our findings contextualize this in crucial ways. On the one hand, we confirm Madaan et al. (2024) ’s observation that IRT-based methods ( Polo et al., 2024 ; Kipnis et al., 2025 ) increase step-to-step variance. On the other hand, our results demonstrate that the issue is not intrinsic to IRT itself, but rather arises from the fact that prior IRT-based methods have not fully leveraged a central strength of IRT: dynamically adapting items to the LM’s capability. We find that exploiting this potential substantially reduces variance compared to accuracy-based evaluations. 
 
 
 
 Extension to Other Settings. 

 
 While we focus on LM evaluation during pretraining in this paper, where efficiency is especially critical due to high computational costs and the need for frequent in-loop evaluations, Fluid Benchmarking is not inherently limited to this phase and holds potential value for posttraining as well. Furthermore, Fluid Benchmarking is readily extendable to other languages and modalities, provided that evaluation results are available to fit an IRT model. For example, applying Fluid Benchmarking to vision-language models could leverage leaderboards such as VHELM ( Lee et al., 2024 ) . 
 
 
 
 Generalization Beyond Train Language Models. 

 
 While IRT ability estimates are not inherently upper bounded by the abilities of the train LMs (i.e., the LMs used to estimate item parameters), the utility of Fluid Benchmarking still depends on having stable and up-to-date IRT models, especially given the rapid pace of LM development. Consider the subset of benchmark items that were not answered correctly by any train LM. These items are effectively assigned the same maximum difficulty. If we conduct Fluid Benchmarking with a new LM that is better than any train LM, evaluation will quickly move to those most difficult items. However, a fixed IRT model cannot distinguish finer levels of difficulty among them. Therefore, IRT models used for Fluid Benchmarking should be regularly updated with fresh evidence. We hope that the IRT models released as part of this paper can serve as a starting point for such an extensible reference standard. 
 
 
 
 
 7 Related Work 

 
 Our study adds to the growing body of work on benchmark refinement (see § 2 for details). Besides providing a formal definition of this emerging field, we introduce a method that improves benchmarking across multiple dimensions. 
 
 
 Prior work has used IRT models in natural language processing ( Lalor et al., 2016 ; Lalor et al., 2018 ; Lalor et al., 2019 ; Lalor & Yu, 2020 ; Rodriguez et al., 2021 ; Vania et al., 2021 ; Rodriguez et al., 2022 ; Lalor et al., 2024 ) . Recently, there have been several attempt to use IRT in the context of benchmark refinement, to improve efficiency ( Polo et al., 2024 ; Kipnis et al., 2025 ) and mitigate benchmark saturation ( Paech, 2024 ) . Our work differs by considering a wider set of criteria and focusing on evaluation during pretraining; we also show that static benchmarks forego the full potential of IRT, which lies in the possibility of adaptive testing. 
 
 
 So far, uses of adaptive testing in natural language processing have been confined to improving the cold start problem ( Rodriguez et al., 2021 ) . 
 
 
 
 8 Conclusion 

 
 In this work, we unify disparate lines of research to introduce the general problem of benchmark refinement . We define four key dimensions along which benchmark refinement methods should be evaluated: efficiency, validity, variance, and saturation. We introduce Fluid Benchmarking , a new benchmarking method that combines item response theory with adaptive testing, improving over prior approaches along all dimensions. In a recent perspective, Zhuang et al. (2024) argued that adaptive testing “will become the new norm in AI model evaluation,” but so far a large-scale analysis of its potential as a general evaluation method has been missing. Our study is the first to provide this analysis and establishes a foundation for new, exciting research in AI evaluation methodology. 
 
 
 
 Acknowledgments 

 
 This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. National Science Foundation (#2113530, #2313998). Any expressed opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the U.S. National Science Foundation. IM was supported by the NSF CSGrad4US Fellowship. PWK was supported by the Singapore National Research Foundation and the National AI Group in the Singapore Ministry of Digital Development and Information under the AI Visiting Professorship Programme (#AIVP-2024-001) and the AI2050 program at Schmidt Sciences. Our special thanks go to the members of AllenNLP, Oyvind Tafjord, and Sarah Wiegreffe for insightful discussions, as well as to the reviewers for their valuable feedback. 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 Beeching et al. (2023) 
 
Edward Beeching, Clémentine Fourrier, Nathan Habib, Sheon Han, Nathan
Lambert, Nazneen Rajani, Omar Sanseviero, Lewis Tunstall, and Thomas Wolf.

 
 Open LLM leaderboard.

 
 https://huggingface.co/spaces/open-llm-leaderboard-old/open_llm_leaderboard,
2023.

 
 
 Biderman et al. (2023) 
 
Stella Biderman, Hailey Schoelkopf, Quentin Gregory Anthony, Herbie Bradley,
Kyle O’Brien, Eric Hallahan, Mohammad Aflah Khan, Shivanshu Purohit,
Usvsn Sai Prashanth, Edward Raff, Aviya Skowron, Lintang Sutawika, and Oskar
van der Wal.

 
 Pythia: A suite for analyzing large language models across
training and scaling.

 
 In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on
Machine Learning , 2023.

 
 
 Birnbaum (1968) 
 
Allan Birnbaum.

 
 Some latent trait models and their use in inferring an examinee’s
ability.

 
 In Frederic M. Lord and Melvin Novick (eds.), Statistical
Theories of Mental Test Scores , pp. 392–479. Addison-Wesley,
Reading, MA, 1968.

 
 
 Birnbaum (1969) 
 
Allan Birnbaum.

 
 Statistical theory for logistic mental test models with a prior
distribution of ability.

 
 Journal of Mathematical Psychology , 6(2):258–276, 1969.

 
 
 Chang (2015) 
 
Hua-Hua Chang.

 
 Psychometrics behind computerized adaptive testing.

 
 Psychometrika , 80(1):1–20, 2015.

 
 
 Clark et al. (2018) 
 
Peter Clark, Isaac Cowhey, Oren Etzioni, Tushar Khot, Ashish Sabharwal, Carissa
Schoenick, and Oyvind Tafjord.

 
 Think you have solved question answering? Try ARC, the AI2
reasoning challenge.

 
 arXiv:1803.05457 , 2018.

 
 
 Cobbe et al. (2021) 
 
Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz
Kaiser, Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano,
Christopher Hesse, and John Schulman.

 
 Training verifiers to solve math word problems.

 
 arXiv:2110.14168 , 2021.

 
 
 DeMars (2010) 
 
Christine DeMars.

 
 Item Response Theory .

 
 Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK, 2010.

 
 
 Gema et al. (2024) 
 
Aryo Pradipta Gema, Joshua Ong Jun Leang, Giwon Hong, Alessio Devoto, Alberto
Carlo Maria Mancino, Rohit Saxena, Xuanli He, Yu Zhao, Xiaotang Du, Mohammad
Reza Ghasemi Madani, Claire Barale, Robert McHardy, Joshua Harris, Jean
Kaddour, Emile van Krieken, and Pasquale Minervini.

 
 Are we done with MMLU?

 
 arXiv:2406.04127 , 2024.

 
 
 Groeneveld et al. (2024) 
 
Dirk Groeneveld, Iz Beltagy, Evan Walsh, Akshita Bhagia, Rodney Kinney, Oyvind
Tafjord, Ananya Jha, Hamish Ivison, Ian Magnusson, Yizhong Wang, Shane Arora,
David Atkinson, Russell Authur, Khyathi Chandu, Arman Cohan, Jennifer Dumas,
Yanai Elazar, Yuling Gu, Jack Hessel, Tushar Khot, William Merrill, Jacob
Morrison, Niklas Muennighoff, Aakanksha Naik, Crystal Nam, Matthew Peters,
Valentina Pyatkin, Abhilasha Ravichander, Dustin Schwenk, Saurabh Shah,
William Smith, Emma Strubell, Nishant Subramani, Mitchell Wortsman, Pradeep
Dasigi, Nathan Lambert, Kyle Richardson, Luke Zettlemoyer, Jesse Dodge, Kyle
Lo, Luca Soldaini, Noah Smith, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi.

 
 OLMo: Accelerating the science of language models.

 
 In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics , 2024.

 
 
 Gu et al. (2024) 
 
Yuling Gu, Oyvind Tafjord, Bailey Kuehl, Dany Haddad, Jesse Dodge, and Hannaneh
Hajishirzi.

 
 OLMES: A standard for language model evaluations.

 
 arXiv:2406.08446 , 2024.

 
 
 Gupta et al. (2024) 
 
Vipul Gupta, Candace Ross, David Pantoja, Rebecca J. Passonneau, Megan Ung, and
Adina Williams.

 
 Improving model evaluation using SMART filtering of benchmark
datasets.

 
 arXiv:2410.20245 , 2024.

 
 
 Hendrycks et al. (2021) 
 
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou, Mantas Mazeika, Dawn
Song, and Jacob Steinhardt.

 
 Measuring massive multitask language understanding.

 
 In Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on
Learning Representations , 2021.

 
 
 Junker et al. (2016) 
 
Brian W. Junker, Richard J. Patz, and Nathan M. VanHoudnos.

 
 Markov chain Monte Carlo for item response models.

 
 In Wim J. van der Linden (ed.), Handbook of Item Response
Theory , volume 2, pp. 271–312. CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 2016.

 
 
 Kipnis et al. (2025) 
 
Alex Kipnis, Konstantinos Voudouris, Luca M. Schulze Buschoff, and Eric Schulz.

 
 metabench: A sparse benchmark of reasoning and knowledge in
large language models.

 
 In Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference
on Learning Representations , 2025.

 
 
 Lalor & Yu (2020) 
 
John P. Lalor and Hong Yu.

 
 Dynamic data selection for curriculum learning via ability
estimation.

 
 In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: EMNLP 2020 , 2020.

 
 
 Lalor et al. (2016) 
 
John P. Lalor, Hao Wu, and Hong Yu.

 
 Building an evaluation scale using item response theory.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing , 2016.

 
 
 Lalor et al. (2018) 
 
John P. Lalor, Hao Wu, Tsendsuren Munkhdalai, and Hong Yu.

 
 Understanding deep learning performance through an examination of
test set difficulty: A psychometric case study.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing , 2018.

 
 
 Lalor et al. (2019) 
 
John P. Lalor, Hao Wu, and Hong Yu.

 
 Learning latent parameters without human response patterns: Item
response theory with artificial crowds.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing , 2019.

 
 
 Lalor et al. (2024) 
 
John P. Lalor, Pedro Rodriguez, João Sedoc, and Jose Hernandez-Orallo.

 
 Item response theory for natural language processing.

 
 In Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 2024.

 
 
 Lee et al. (2024) 
 
Tony Lee, Haoqin Tu, Chi H. Wong, Wenhao Zheng, Yiyang Zhou, Yifan Mai,
Josselin S. Roberts, Michihiro Yasunaga, Huaxiu Yao, Cihang Xie, and Percy
Liang.

 
 VHELM: A holistic evaluation of vision language models.

 
 In Proceedings of the 38th Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems , 2024.

 
 
 Liang et al. (2023) 
 
Percy Liang, Rishi Bommasani, Tony Lee, Dimitris Tsipras, Dilara Soylu,
Michihiro Yasunaga, Yian Zhang, Deepak Narayanan, Yuhuai Wu, Ananya Kumar,
Benjamin Newman, Binhang Yuan, Bobby Yan, Ce Zhang, Christian Alexander
Cosgrove, Christopher D. Manning, Christopher Re, Diana Acosta-Navas,
Drew Arad Hudson, Eric Zelikman, Esin Durmus, Faisal Ladhak, Frieda Rong,
Hongyu Ren, Huaxiu Yao, Jue Wang, Keshav Santhanam, Laurel Orr, Lucia Zheng,
Mert Yuksekgonul, Mirac Suzgun, Nathan Kim, Neel Guha, Niladri S. Chatterji,
Omar Khattab, Peter Henderson, Qian Huang, Ryan Andrew Chi, Sang Michael Xie,
Shibani Santurkar, Surya Ganguli, Tatsunori Hashimoto, Thomas Icard, Tianyi
Zhang, Vishrav Chaudhary, William Wang, Xuechen Li, Yifan Mai, Yuhui Zhang,
and Yuta Koreeda.

 
 Holistic evaluation of language models.

 
 Transactions on Machine Learning Research , 2023.

 
 
 Liao et al. (2021) 
 
Thomas I. Liao, Rohan Taori, Inioluwa Deborah Raji, and Ludwig Schmidt.

 
 Are we learning yet? A meta-review of evaluation failures across
machine learning.

 
 In Proceedings of the 35th Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems , 2021.

 
 
 Lin et al. (2022) 
 
Stephanie Lin, Jacob Hilton, and Owain Evans.

 
 TruthfulQA: Measuring how models mimic human falsehoods.

 
 In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics , 2022.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2023) 
 
Zhengzhong Liu, Aurick Qiao, Willie Neiswanger, Hongyi Wang, Bowen Tan, Tianhua
Tao, Junbo Li, Yuqi Wang, Suqi Sun, Omkar Pangarkar, Richard Fan, Yi Gu,
Victor Miller, Yonghao Zhuang, Guowei He, Haonan Li, Fajri Koto, Liping Tang,
Nikhil Ranjan, Zhiqiang Shen, Xuguang Ren, Roberto Iriondo, Cun Mu, Zhiting
Hu, Mark Schulze, Preslav Nakov, Tim Baldwin, and Eric P. Xing.

 
 LLM360: Towards fully transparent open-source LLMs.

 
 arXiv:2312.06550 , 2023.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2025) 
 
Zhengzhong Liu, Bowen Tan, Hongyi Wang, Willie Neiswanger, Tianhua Tao, Haonan
Li, Fajri Koto, Yuqi Wang, Suqi Sun, Omkar Pangarkar, Richard Fan, Yi Gu,
Victor Miller, Liqun Ma, Liping Tang, Nikhil Ranjan, Yonghao Zhuang, Guowei
He, Renxi Wang, Mingkai Deng, Robin Algayres, Yuanzhi Li, Zhiqiang Shen,
Preslav Nakov, and Eric Xing.

 
 LLM360 K2: Building a 65B 360-open-source large language
model from scratch.

 
 arXiv:2501.07124 , 2025.

 
 
 Lord (1952) 
 
Frederic M. Lord.

 
 A Theory of Test Scores .

 
 Psychometric Corporation, Richmond, VA, 1952.

 
 
 Lord (1980) 
 
Frederic M. Lord.

 
 Applications of Item Response Theory to Practical Testing
Problems .

 
 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NJ, 1980.

 
 
 Lord (1983) 
 
Frederic M. Lord.

 
 Unbiased estimators of ability parameters, of their variance, and of
their parallel-forms reliability.

 
 Psychometrika , 48(2):233–245, 1983.

 
 
 Madaan et al. (2024) 
 
Lovish Madaan, Aaditya K. Singh, Rylan Schaeffer, Andrew Poulton, Sanmi Koyejo,
Pontus Stenetorp, Sharan Narang, and Dieuwke Hupkes.

 
 Quantifying variance in evaluation benchmarks.

 
 arXiv:2406.10229 , 2024.

 
 
 Magis et al. (2017) 
 
David Magis, Duanli Yan, and Alina A. von Davier.

 
 Computerized Adaptive and Multistage Testing with
R .

 
 Springer, Cham, 2017.

 
 
 Meijer & Nering (1999) 
 
Rob R. Meijer and Michael L. Nering.

 
 Computerized adaptive testing: Overview and introduction.

 
 Applied Psychological Measurement , 23(3):187–194, 1999.

 
 
 Mizrahi et al. (2024) 
 
Moran Mizrahi, Guy Kaplan, Dan Malkin, Rotem Dror, Dafna Shahaf, and Gabriel
Stanovsky.

 
 State of what art? A call for multi-prompt LLM evaluation.

 
 Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics ,
12:933–949, 2024.

 
 
 Natesan et al. (2016) 
 
Prathiba Natesan, Ratna Nandakumar, Tom Minka, and Jonathan D. Rubright.

 
 Bayesian prior choice in IRT estimation using MCMC and
variational bayes.

 
 Frontiers in Psychology , 7, 2016.

 
 
 Ni et al. (2024) 
 
Jinjie Ni, Fuzhao Xue, Xiang Yue, Yuntian Deng, Mahir Shah, Kabir Jain, Graham
Neubig, and Yang You.

 
 MixEval: Deriving wisdom of the crowd from LLM benchmark
mixtures.

 
 In Proceedings of the 38th Annual Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems , 2024.

 
 
 Northcutt et al. (2021) 
 
Curtis G. Northcutt, Anish Athalye, and Jonas Mueller.

 
 Pervasive label errors in test sets destabilize machine learning
benchmarks.

 
 In Proceedings of the 35th Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems , 2021.

 
 
 OLMo et al. (2025) 
 
Team OLMo, Pete Walsh, Luca Soldaini, Dirk Groeneveld, Kyle Lo, Shane Arora,
Akshita Bhagia, Yuling Gu, Shengyi Huang, Matt Jordan, Nathan Lambert, Dustin
Schwenk, Oyvind Tafjord, Taira Anderson, David Atkinson, Faeze Brahman,
Christopher Clark, Pradeep Dasigi, Nouha Dziri, Michal Guerquin, Hamish
Ivison, Pang Wei Koh, Jiacheng Liu, Saumya Malik, William Merrill, Lester
James V. Miranda, Jacob Morrison, Tyler Murray, Crystal Nam, Valentina
Pyatkin, Aman Rangapur, Michael Schmitz, Sam Skjonsberg, David Wadden,
Christopher Wilhelm, Michael Wilson, Luke Zettlemoyer, Ali Farhadi, Noah A.
Smith, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi.

 
 2 OLMo 2 Furious.

 
 arXiv:2501.00656 , 2025.

 
 
 Paech (2024) 
 
Sam Paech.

 
 Creating MAGI: A hard subset of MMLU and AGIEval.

 
 https://sampaech.substack.com/p/creating-magi-a-hard-subset-of-mmlu,
2024.

 
 
 Perlitz et al. (2024a) 
 
Yotam Perlitz, Elron Bandel, Ariel Gera, Ofir Arviv, Liat Ein-Dor, Eyal
Shnarch, Noam Slonim, Michal Shmueli-Scheuer, and Leshem Choshen.

 
 Efficient benchmarking (of language models).

 
 In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies , 2024a.

 
 
 Perlitz et al. (2024b) 
 
Yotam Perlitz, Ariel Gera, Ofir Arviv, Asaf Yehudai, Elron Bandel, Eyal
Shnarch, Michal Shmueli-Scheuer, and Leshem Choshen.

 
 Do these LLM benchmarks agree? Fixing benchmark evaluation
with BenchBench.

 
 arXiv:2407.13696 , 2024b.

 
 
 Polo et al. (2024) 
 
Felipe M. Polo, Lucas Weber, Leshem Choshen, Yuekai Sun, Gongjun Xu, and
Mikhail Yurochkin.

 
 tinyBenchmarks: Evaluating LLMs with fewer examples.

 
 In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on
Machine Learning , 2024.

 
 
 Reckase (2009) 
 
Mark D. Reckase.

 
 Multidimensional Item Response Theory .

 
 Springer, New York City, NY, 2009.

 
 
 Rodriguez et al. (2021) 
 
Pedro Rodriguez, Joe Barrow, Alexander Miserlis Hoyle, John P. Lalor, Robin
Jia, and Jordan Boyd-Graber.

 
 Evaluation examples are not equally informative: How should that
change NLP leaderboards?

 
 In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing , 2021.

 
 
 Rodriguez et al. (2022) 
 
Pedro Rodriguez, Phu Mon Htut, John Lalor, and João Sedoc.

 
 Clustering examples in multi-dataset benchmarks with item response
theory.

 
 In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Insights from
Negative Results in NLP , 2022.

 
 
 Sakaguchi et al. (2020) 
 
Keisuke Sakaguchi, Ronan Le Bras, Chandra Bhagavatula, and Yejin Choi.

 
 WinoGrande: An Adversarial Winograd Schema Challenge at
Scale.

 
 In Proceedings of the Thirty-Fourth AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence , 2020.

 
 
 Saxon et al. (2024) 
 
Michael Saxon, Ari Holtzman, Peter West, William Yang Wang, and Naomi Saphra.

 
 Benchmarks as microscopes: A call for model metrology.

 
 In Proceedings of the First Conference on Language
Modeling , 2024.

 
 
 Suzgun et al. (2023) 
 
Mirac Suzgun, Nathan Scales, Nathanael Schärli, Sebastian Gehrmann, Yi Tay,
Hyung Won Chung, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Quoc Le, Ed Chi, Denny Zhou, and Jason
Wei.

 
 Challenging BIG-Bench tasks and whether chain-of-thought can
solve them.

 
 In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: ACL 2023 , 2023.

 
 
 van der Linden & Hambleton (1997) 
 
Wim J. van der Linden and Ronald K. Hambleton (eds.).

 
 Handbook of Modern Item Response Theory .

 
 Springer, New York City, NY, 1997.

 
 
 Vania et al. (2021) 
 
Clara Vania, Phu Mon Htut, William Huang, Dhara Mungra, Richard Yuanzhe Pang,
Jason Phang, Haokun Liu, Kyunghyun Cho, and Samuel R. Bowman.

 
 Comparing test sets with item response theory.

 
 In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing , 2021.

 
 
 Vendrow et al. (2025) 
 
Joshua Vendrow, Edward Vendrow, Sara Beery, and Aleksander Madry.

 
 Do large language model benchmarks test reliability?

 
 arXiv:2502.03461 , 2025.

 
 
 Vivek et al. (2024) 
 
Rajan Vivek, Kawin Ethayarajh, Diyi Yang, and Douwe Kiela.

 
 Anchor points: Benchmarking models with much fewer examples.

 
 In Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 2024.

 
 
 Xia et al. (2024) 
 
Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yinlin Deng, and Lingming Zhang.

 
 Top leaderboard ranking = top coding proficiency, always?
EvoEval: Evolving coding benchmarks via LLM.

 
 In Proceedings of the First Conference on Language
Modeling , 2024.

 
 
 Zellers et al. (2019) 
 
Rowan Zellers, Ari Holtzman, Yonatan Bisk, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi.

 
 HellaSwag: Can a machine really finish your sentence?

 
 In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics , 2019.

 
 
 Zhuang et al. (2024) 
 
Yan Zhuang, Qi Liu, Yuting Ning, Weizhe Huang, Zachary A. Pardos, Patrick C.
Kyllonen, Jiyun Zu, Qingyang Mao, Rui Lv, Zhenya Huang, Guanhao Zhao, Zheng
Zhang, Shijin Wang, and Enhong Chen.

 
 From static benchmarks to adaptive testing: Psychometrics in
AI evaluation.

 
 arXiv:2306.10512 , 2024.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A Item Characteristic Curves 

 
 We provide example item characteristic curves in Figure  6 . 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix B Fisher Information of HellaSwag Items 

 
 For illustrative purposes, Figure  7 shows the Fisher information of HellaSwag items halfway through the simulated training run, when . 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix C Checkpoint Details 

 
 We provide details about the selected LM checkpoints. For Amber-6.7B, we select 73 checkpoints.
For OLMo1-7B, we select 83 checkpoints. For OLMo2-7B, we select 94 checkpoints. For Pythia-6.9B, we select 78 checkpoints. For Pythia-2.8B, we select 78 checkpoints. For K2-65B, we select 61 checkpoints. For all LMs, checkpoints are selected to ensure even coverage throughout the entire training run. 
 
 
 
 Appendix D Language Model Inclusion Criteria 

 
 We used the following criteria when selecting LMs for IRT model training: 
 
 – 
 
 We only included pretrained LMs. Finetuned, merged, fused, distilled, or continually pretrained LMs were excluded, as they can lead to clusters of highly similar models, potentially skewing the IRT model. 
 
 – 
 
 In the rare cases where an LM appears on the Open LLM Leaderboard with multiple checkpoints, we used only the final checkpoint listed. 
 
 – 
 
 We excluded LMs trained solely on non-English data, but multilingual LMs were included as long as English data were part of their training corpus. 
 
 – 
 
 We removed any LMs from the same model family as the test LMs (e.g., OLMo1-1B). 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix E Item Response Model Details 

 
 In the main experiments, we fit separate unidimensional IRT models to each benchmark . Initially, we also experimented with two alternative setups: 
 
 – 
 
 We experimented with fitting a single unidimensional IRT model across all benchmarks , following prior work suggesting that one latent trait can capture overall model behavior ( Kipnis et al., 2025 ) . However, we found that this substantially reduced construct validity. For example, the performance of Amber-6.7B on TruthfulQA decreases during pretraining ( Liu et al., 2023 ) ; by contrast, when we evaluated Amber-6.7B using a unidimensional IRT model trained across all benchmarks, the estimated ability increased—the IRT model effectively emphasized TruthfulQA items aligned with general trends, obscuring the fact that Amber-6.7B actually becomes less truthful during pretraining. 
 
 – 
 
 We experimented with fitting separate multidimensional IRT models (with two to five latent traits) to each benchmark . These models, however, did not yield consistent improvements in model fit compared to the unidimensional IRT models. 
 
 
 Ultimately, fitting separate unidimensional IRT models to each benchmark offered the best trade-off in our experiments. That said, multidimensional IRT models may offer greater advantages in other settings (e.g., when evaluating multimodal models). 
 
 
 
 Appendix F Breakdown of Results by Benchmark and Language Model 

 
 Table 3 breaks the comparison against baselines down by benchmark. Table 4 breaks the comparison against baselines down by LM. We examine the ablated baselines here, fixing the number of items per benchmark to 100. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix G Variance and Saturation Plots 

 
 Figure  8 provides a more detailed comparison of Fluid Benchmarking and Random in terms of variance (Figure  8(a) ) and saturation (Figure  8(b) ). Fluid Benchmarking improves on Random for almost all combinations of benchmark, subset size, and LM. 
 
 
 
 Appendix H Comparison Against Full-Benchmark Accuracy 

 
 We have shown that Fluid Benchmarking improves evaluation quality in terms of validity, variance, and saturation, compared against alternative evaluation methods using the same number of items. Do these advantages persist when evaluation cost is not a concern (i.e., when it is feasible to evaluate on the full set of benchmark items)? To test this, we compare Fluid Benchmarking ( ) with full-benchmark accuracy, using the same LMs and benchmarks as in our main experiments (see § 4 ). 
 
 
 We find that full-benchmark accuracy performs worse than Fluid Benchmarking across all three evaluation dimensions, despite using substantially more items. This holds for validity (9.1 vs. 8.3 for Fluid Benchmarking ), variance (23.8 vs. 4.9 for Fluid Benchmarking ), and saturation (0.85 vs. 0.88 for Fluid Benchmarking ). Notably, even Fluid Benchmarking with only 50 items outperforms full-benchmark accuracy on all three dimensions (cf. Table  2 ). These results suggest that Fluid Benchmarking can improve evaluation quality even in settings where efficiency is not a limiting factor. 
 
 
 
 Figure 8 : Variance and saturation results. The figure shows pairwise comparisons measuring the total variation (a) and monotonicity (b) of training curves based on Random and Fluid Benchmarking . For variance, lower total variation is better. For saturation, high monotonicity is better, as it indicates that increased pretraining consistently yields better performance, suggesting that the benchmark has not yet saturated. Thus, for variance, points in the lower right triangle indicate that Fluid Benchmarking is better than Random , and for saturation, points in the upper left triangle indicate that Fluid Benchmarking is better than Random . Fluid Benchmarking improves on Random for almost all combinations of benchmark, subset size, and LM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
