 
 
 
 Optimizing Neural Networks withGradient Lexicase Selection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 2 Background and Related Work 
 3 Gradient Lexicase Selection 
 
 3.1 Evolution with Subset Gradient Descent (SubGD) 
 3.2 Lexicase Selection for DNNs 
 
 4 Experimental Results 
 
 4.1 Image Classification Results 
 4.2 Comparing Different Selection Methods 
 
 5 Ablation Studies 
 
 5.1 Population Size 
 5.2 Momentum 
 5.3 Representation Diversity 
 
 6 Conclusion and Future Work 
 References 
 A Lexicase Selection 
 B Implementation Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: arXiv.org perpetual non-exclusive license
 
 
arXiv:2312.12606v1 [cs.LG] 19 Dec 2023 
 
 
 Optimizing Neural Networks with
 Gradient Lexicase Selection 
 
 
 Li Ding
 
 Affiliation:  University of Massachusetts Amherst
 
 Email:  liding@umass.edu 
 
    
 Lee Spector
 
 Affiliation:  Amherst College
 
 Affiliation:  University of Massachusetts Amherst
 
 Email:  lspector@amherst.edu 
 

 Abstract 
 
 One potential drawback of using aggregated performance measurement in machine learning is that models may learn to accept higher errors on some training cases as compromises for lower errors on others, with the lower errors actually being instances of overfitting.
This can lead to both stagnation at local optima and poor generalization.
Lexicase selection is an uncompromising method developed in evolutionary computation, which selects models on the basis of sequences of individual training case errors instead of using aggregated metrics such as loss and accuracy.
In this paper, we investigate how lexicase selection, in its general form, can be integrated into the context of deep learning to enhance generalization.
We propose Gradient Lexicase Selection, an optimization framework that combines gradient descent and lexicase selection in an evolutionary fashion.
Our experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method improves the generalization performance of various widely-used deep neural network architectures across three image classification benchmarks.
Additionally, qualitative analysis suggests that our method assists networks in learning more diverse representations.
Our source code is available on GitHub:
 https://github.com/ld-ing/gradient-lexicase . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 

 
 Modern data-driven learning algorithms, in general, define an optimization
objective, e.g. , a fitness function for parent selection in genetic
algorithms  ( Holland, 1992 ) or a loss function for gradient descent in
deep learning  ( LeCun et al., 2015 ) , which computes the aggregate performance on
the training data to guide the optimization process. Taking the image
classification problem as an example, most recent approaches use Cross-Entropy
loss with gradient descent  ( Bottou, 2010 ) and
backpropagation  ( Rumelhart et al., 1985 ) to train deep neural networks
(DNNs) on batches of training images. Despite the success that advanced DNNs can
reach human-level performance on the image recognition
task  ( Russakovsky et al., 2015 ) , one potential drawback for such aggregated
performance measurement is that the model may learn to seek “compromises”
during the learning procedure, e.g. , optimizing model weights to intentionally
keep some errors in order to gain higher likelihood on correct predictions. To
give an example, consider a situation that may happen during the training phase
of image classification for a batch of 10 images: 9 of them are correctly
predicted with high probabilities, but one is wrong. The aggregated loss may
produce gradients that guide the model weights to compromise the wrong case for
higher probabilities on other cases, which may lead to the optimization process
getting stuck at local optima. 
 
 
 We refer to problems for which such compromises are undesirable as
 uncompromising problems   ( Helmuth et al., 2014 ) , that is, as
problems for which it is not acceptable for a solution to perform sub-optimally
on any one of the cases in exchange for better performance on others. In deep
learning, in order to improve the generalization  ( Zhang et al., 2017 ) 
of DNNs, it is important to maintain the diversity and generality of the
representations contributed by every training case. 
 
 
 From the literature, uncompromising problems have been recently explored in
genetic programming (GP) and genetic algorithms (GAs) for tasks such as program
synthesis. Among many methods that aim to mitigate this problem, lexicase
selection  ( Helmuth et al., 2014 ; Spector, 2012 ) has been shown to
outperform many other
methods  ( Fieldsend & Moraglio, 2015 ; Galvan-Lopez et al., 2013 ; Krawiec & Liskowski, 2015 ) in a
number of applications and benchmarks  ( Helmuth & Spector, 2015 ; Helmuth & Kelly, 2021 ) .
Instead of using an aggregated fitness function for parent selection, lexicase
selection gradually eliminates candidates as it proceeds to look at how the
population fares at each data point in the shuffled training dataset, in which
way it can bolster the diversity and generality in populations. Recent works
also show that lexicase selection can be used in rule-based learning
systems  ( Aenugu & Spector, 2019 ) , symbolic regression  ( La Cava et al., 2016 ) ,
constraint satisfaction problems  ( Metevier et al., 2019 ) , machine
learning  ( La Cava & Moore, 2020b ; La Cava & Moore, 2020a ) , and evolutionary
robotics  ( Huizinga & Clune, 2018 ; La Cava & Moore, 2018 ) to improve model
generalization, especially in situations of diverse and unbalanced data. It is
reasonable to suspect that for many deep learning problems such as image
classification, due to natural variances in real-world data collection, lexicase
selection is likely to help improve the generalization of models. 
 
 
 In this work, we aim to explore the application of lexicase selection in the
task of optimizing deep neural networks. Taking advantage of the commonly-used
gradient descent and backpropagation methods, we introduce Gradient Lexicase
Selection, an optimization framework for training DNNs that not
only benefit from the efficiency of gradient-based learning but also improves
the generalization of the networks using the outline of lexicase selection
method in an evolutionary fashion. We test the proposed method on the basic
image classification task on three benchmark datasets
(CIFAR-10  ( Krizhevsky et al., 2009 ) ,
CIFAR-100  ( Krizhevsky et al., 2009 ) , and SVHN  ( Netzer et al., 2011 ) ).
Experimental results show that gradient lexicase selection manages to improve
the performance of the DNNs consistently across six different popular
architectures (VGG  ( Simonyan & Zisserman, 2015 ) , ResNet  ( He et al., 2016 ) ,
DenseNet  ( Huang et al., 2017 ) , MobileNetV2  ( Sandler et al., 2018 ) ,
SENet  ( Hu et al., 2018 ) , EfficientNet  ( Tan & Le, 2019 ) ). In
addition, we perform further ablation studies to analyze the effectiveness and
robustness of the proposed method from various perspectives. We first introduce
variants to our method by using random selection and tournament selection, in
order to validate the contribution of each component in the framework. We also
investigate the trade-offs between exploration and exploitation by analyzing the
effects of changing population size and momentum. Finally, the qualitative
analysis shows that our algorithm produces better representation diversity,
which is advantageous to the generalization of DNNs. 
 
 
 
 2 Background and Related Work 

 
 Preliminaries of Lexicase Selection 
 
 
 Lexicase selection is initially proposed as a parent selection method in
population-based stochastic search algorithms such as genetic
programming  ( Helmuth et al., 2014 ; Spector, 2012 ) . Follow-up work has
shown that it can effectively improve behavioral diversity and
the overall performance and on a variety of genetic programming
problems  ( Helmuth et al., 2016 ; Helmuth & Spector, 2015 ; Helmuth et al., 2014 ; Liskowski et al., 2015 ) .
The key idea is that each selection event considers a
randomly shuffled sequence of training cases. As a result, lexicase selection
sometimes selects specialist individuals that perform poorly on average but
perform better than many individuals on one or more other cases. We include a more detailed description of lexicase selection in Appendix  A . 
 
 
 Unlike methods such as tournament selection that use a single fitness value and
thus tend to always select generalist individuals that have good average
performance, lexicase selection does not base selection on an aggregated measure of
performance. Such a difference allows lexicase selection to maintain higher
population diversity by prioritizing different parts of the dataset during each
selection event through the ordering of the cases. It has been shown empirically
on a number of program synthesis benchmark problems that lexicase selection
substantially outperforms standard tournament selection and typically maintains
higher levels of diversity  ( Helmuth et al., 2016 ) . 
 
 
 In a more general context, lexicase selection can be used in any case where a
selection procedure occurs with regard to performance assessment of multiple
candidates with a set of training cases. Recent work also explores the usage of
lexicase selection in rule-based learning systems  ( Aenugu & Spector, 2019 ) ,
symbolic regression  ( La Cava et al., 2016 ) , constraint satisfaction
problems  ( Metevier et al., 2019 ) , machine
learning  ( La Cava & Moore, 2020b ; La Cava & Moore, 2020a ) , and evolutionary
robotics  ( Huizinga & Clune, 2018 ; La Cava & Moore, 2018 ) . In this work, we aim to
explore the effectiveness of lexicase selection in the context of deep learning
optimization from the perspective of improving the diversity of gradient-based
representation learning for better generalization. While there are also other
parent selection
methods  ( Fieldsend & Moraglio, 2015 ; Galvan-Lopez et al., 2013 ; Krawiec & Liskowski, 2015 ) that
have been proposed to achieve similar goals, in this work we focus on
investigating the usage of lexicase selection in deep learning. Further
discussion of comparisons between lexicase selection to other selection methods
are out of the scope of this work. 
 
 
 Deep Neuroevolution and Population-based Optimization 
 
 
 While backpropagation  ( Rumelhart et al., 1985 ) with gradient descent has
been the most successful method in training DNNs with fixed-topology in the past
few decades  ( LeCun et al., 2015 ) , there are also attempts to train DNNs through
evolutionary algorithms (EAs). Such et al. (2017) proposed a gradient-free
method to evolve the network weights by using a simple genetic algorithm, and
was able to evolve a relatively deep network (with 4 million parameters) and
demonstrated competitive results on several reinforcement learning benchmark
problems. Jaderberg et al. (2017) proposed population-based training to
optimize both model and the hyperparameters. Cui et al. (2018) 
proposed to alternate between the SGD step and evolution step to improve the
average fitness of the population. Ding & Spector (2021) demonstrate the
usage of selection-inspired methods as regularization of DNNs. The most relevant
recent work is Pawełczyk et al. (2018) , which did a pilot study on
combining simple GA schema with gradient-based learning, where gradient training
is used as part of the mutation process. Although the method was tested only on
one dataset, the results were encouraging and offered some insights on a deeper
combination of GAs and gradient learning. Following this trend, this paper aims
to explore a more efficient evolutionary framework that takes advantage of both
SGD and lexicase selection, to improve the network generalization by treating
image recognition as an uncompromising problem. 
 
 
 From a broader perspective that is also closely related to this work, there has
been a surge of interest in methods for Neural Architecture Search
(NAS)  ( Elsken et al., 2019 ) , where evolutionary algorithms gain high
popularity. A majority of
methods  ( Floreano et al., 2008 ; Liu et al., 2017 ; Miikkulainen et al., 2019 ; Real et al., 2019 ; Real et al., 2017 ; Stanley & Miikkulainen, 2002 ; Xie & Yuille, 2017 ) 
use EA to search neural network topologies and use backpropagation to optimize
network weights, and some others  ( Stanley & Miikkulainen, 2002 ) use EA to co-evolve
topologies along with weights. While our method can be easily extended to the
NAS problem, this work focuses on training various fixed-topology networks in
order to make fair comparisons to show the significance of using lexicase
selection to improve model generalization. 
 
 
 
 3 Gradient Lexicase Selection 

 
 Our goal is to integrate lexicase selection to improve the generalization of
DNNs, while at the same time to the greatest extent keep the efficiency of the
popular gradient-based learning. We propose Gradient Lexicase Selection as an
optimization framework to combine the strength of these two methods. The
algorithm is outlined in Alg.  1 . An overview of the algorithm
is also depicted in Fig.  1 . The proposed algorithm has two main
components, Subset Gradient Descent (SubGD) and Lexicase Selection, which we
describe in details in this section as follows. 
 
 
 
 3.1 Evolution with Subset Gradient Descent (SubGD) 

 
 First, we introduce the general evolutionary framework that uses a combination
of stochastic gradient descent and evolution. Given the network topology, we
first initialize all the parameters as the initial parent weights. For
each generation, given a population size of , we generate instances of
the model as offspring with the same weights as the parent weights, namely,
 . We then perform mutation on
these offspring and use lexicase selection to select the parent for the next
generation. 
 
 
 For each generation, we have instances of the model starting with the exact
same weights. Instead of random mutations such as adding gaussian noise as
commonly used in neuroevolution, we propose a gradient-based mutation method
called subset gradient descent (SubGD). 
 
 
 Given the whole training dataset , we divided it into subsets
with random sampling, as . We then train each model instance accordingly on one of
the subsets using the normal mini-batch stochastic gradient descent. The
mutation is done when all the training data is consumed, which is one epoch in
traditional deep learning. 
 
 
 There are several advantages of the proposed mutation method. First, since all
the offspring are trained with different non-overlapping training samples, they
are likely to evolve diversely, especially when data augmentation is also
included. Secondly, each off-spring is trained using gradient descent, meaning
they will be optimized efficiently towards the objective, comparing to random
mutation methods such as gaussian noise. Thirdly, if implemented with
distributed training, all the offspring can be trained simultaneously to further
reduce computation time. In general, the subset gradient descent aims to find a
balance between exploration and exploitation during the evolution process for
more efficient optimization. 
 
 
 
 
 3.2 Lexicase Selection for DNNs 

 
 After mutation, the offspring become candidates and we use lexicase selection to
select a parent from them for the next generation. First, a randomly shuffled
sequence of training data points (without data augmentation) is used for
selection. Starting from the first training sample, we evaluate all the
candidates on each case individually and remove the candidate from the selection
pool if it does not make the correct prediction. This process is repeated until
if 1) there is only one candidate left, which will be selected as the parent for
the next generation, or 2) all the training samples are exhausted and more than
one candidates survive, in which case we randomly pick a candidate from the
selection pool. 
 
 
 For the selection process, we do not hold out another validation set because 1)
if we choose to use a validation set, the validation set should have an adequate
size in order to ensure its diversity and generality, which means the training
set will be noticeably smaller, and thus the training performance is likely to
degrade; 2) since each model instance only gets access to part of the
(augmented) training data, the selection performed on the original training data
is still effective, since the exact same data was never used in the mutation
(training). 
 
 
 An important feature of lexicase selection is that it treats all the cases
equally and thus there is no way to modify its selection pressure. The
motivation behind lexicase selection is to allow the survival of those models
which may not perform best overall but were able to solve the given testing
cases. Such a model is likely to learn essential feature representations that
allow it to make correct predictions on specific cases where all others fail. By
letting lexicase selection guide the training process, the neural network can
potentially learn more diverse representations that finally contribute to better
generalization. 
 
 
 To better accommodate the situation of training deep models on large-scale
datasets, we also make some slight modifications to the original lexicase
selection algorithm in regard to the tie situations, i.e. , when all the remaining
candidates fail to make the correct prediction on one case. The original
lexicase selection lets all the candidates survive because they all have the
same “best” performance, which is failure. However, in the early stages of DNN
training, while all the candidates are unable to predict correctly on any case,
the original lexicase selection will proceed to evaluate them until someone
happens to get a correct prediction by chance, which is inefficient especially
on large datasets. So we modify the algorithm to randomly select a candidate
from the remaining candidates if they all fail. The modification improves the
efficiency of early-stage training and has not shown any noticeable effect on
the final model performance. 
 
 
 
 
 4 Experimental Results 

 
 The proposed Gradient Lexicase Selection is tested on the task of image
classification, which is one of the most common benchmark problems in computer
vision and deep learning in general. We implement the algorithm on six popular DNN
architectures (VGG  ( Simonyan & Zisserman, 2015 ) , ResNet  ( He et al., 2016 ) ,
DenseNet  ( Huang et al., 2017 ) , MobileNetV2  ( Sandler et al., 2018 ) ,
SENet  ( Hu et al., 2018 ) , EfficientNet  ( Tan & Le, 2019 ) ). To show
the significance of our method, we also implement the original momentum-SGD
training as baselines for all the architectures. 
 
 
 Three benchmark datasets (CIFAR-10  ( Krizhevsky et al., 2009 ) ,
CIFAR-100  ( Krizhevsky et al., 2009 ) , and SVHN  ( Netzer et al., 2011 ) ) are
used for evaluation. These datasets comprise pixel real-world RGB
images of common objects (CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100) and street scene digits (SVHN).
The training is done using the training set only and we evaluate the methods on
the test set after the training process is finished. Note that for illustration
purposes, we only use the training dataset of SVHN without the large
 extra set, so the results are not comparable to other work. 
 
 
 4.1 Image Classification Results 

 
 The image classification results are shown in Tab.  1 . We report the
mean percentage accuracy ( acc. ) with standard deviation ( std. )
obtained by running the same experiment with three different random seeds. The
last column ( acc. ) calculates the difference of accuracy by
using our method compared to baseline, where positive numbers indicate
improvement. We can first see that by using our method, most of the
architectures show significant improvement on the testing result. On the easier
SVHN dataset, we can still observe moderate and consistent improvement. To show
the robustness of our algorithm, we use the same population size of for
lexicase in all the experiments, meaning the performance may be further improved
if extra tuning is performed. The ablation study on the effect of population
size is described later in Sec. 5.1 . 
 
 
 
 Beyond those improvements, we also find that among all the architectures, our
method surprisingly fails to improve MobileNetV2 on both CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100.
The main difference between MobileNetV2 and other architectures is that it is a
highly optimized architecture with over an order of magnitude less parameters
compared to other architectures. Sandler et al. (2018) stated that they
tailor the architecture to different performance points, which can be adjusted
depending on desired accuracy/performance trade-of. As a result, it is likely
that the accuracy is restricted by the model size, and even with better training
strategies the performance is not going to improve. Such results indicate that
our method may not work directly with architectures that have been optimized by
using other training methods. But for other more general architectures our
method work directly out-of-the-box without further tuning. 
 
 
 
 4.2 Comparing Different Selection Methods 

 
 The proposed method has two major components, SubGD and Lexicase Selection. To
further validate the contribution of each component, we introduce two other
selection methods for comparison: random selection and tournament
selection  ( Miller et al., 1995 ) . Using the same evolutionary framework with
SubGD, random selection simply selects a random offspring for each generation,
and tournament selection uses the average accuracy as the fitness function for
selection, which is an aggregated metric as oppose to lexicase selection. The
results are shown in Tab.  2 . 
 
 
 
 We can observe that both random selection and tournament selection perform
slightly better than the SGD baseline in most cases, but the proposed gradient
lexicase selection is consistently better than both methods with a significant
margin. Random selection can be viewed as a baseline method that uses SGD with
the same amount of computation as gradient lexicase selection, which indicates
that the proposed method outperforms SGD even at the same level of computation.
Tournament selection is one of the most commonly used selection method in
evolutionary algorithms, which select parents based on an aggregated fitness
evaluation. As the performance of tournament selection is similar to random
selection, indicating that the mechanism of lexicase selection has the major
contribution to the improvement. 
 
 
 
 
 5 Ablation Studies 

 
 In this section, we design several ablation studies to further analyze and validate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Unless specifically mentioned, all the implementation details follow the same practices in Sec.  B . 
 
 
 5.1 Population Size 

 
 Population size is an essential hyperparameter for evolutionary algorithms. In
this work, the population size of DNNs has more constraints such as computation
cost and total GPU memory, so it has to be much smaller comparing to those for
classic GP problems. We test lexicase gradient selection with population sizes
of . For illustration purposes, two architectures (VGG16 and ResNet18)
are evaluated on the CIFAR-10 dataset. The results are shown in
Tab.  3 . 
 
 
 First, we can see that lexicase is relatively robust to different population
size . Under all the population size configurations lexicase manages to
outperform baseline significantly. Since there have not been a trend of
increased accuracy with larger population size, the generalization performance
does not seem to increase with a larger population. This observation aligns well
with the behavior of lexicase selection in GP
problems  ( Helmuth et al., 2018 ; La Cava et al., 2019 ) , where there seems to be
an optimal population size through the trade-off between exploration and
exploitation. 
 
 
 For our method, having a larger population size not only adds more offspring for
each generation, but also reduces the size of each subset used for training each
offspring by SubGD. In either way, the exploration is reduced and the
exploitation is increased. There is no conflict between the two effects, so we
do not control the size of each subset when increasing the population size. If
the population gets too large, the individuals may not evolve different-enough
behaviors from each other, and thus the diversity of population may become
lower. In general, we find that with relatively small population size, we can
get good results for gradient lexicase selection. 
 
 
 
 
 5.2 Momentum 

 
 In deep learning, SGD with
momentum  ( Sutskever et al., 2013 ; Liu et al., 2020 ) has been one of the
most widely adopted methods for training DNNs. Momentum accelerates gradient
descent by accumulating a velocity vector in directions of persistent reduction
in the objective across iterations. This accumulating behavior actually
interferes with the proposed gradient lexicase selection algorithm, because
model instances in the population get different gradient updates, and thus will
have different momentum parameters. 
 
 
 To solve this issue, we propose three options: 1) No Momentum: do not use
momentum at all; 2) Reset Momentum: use high momentum rate and re-initialize the
momentum parameters every epoch for each model instance; 3) Inherit Momentum:
when selecting the parent model, also copy the momentum parameters along with
the model parameters to all the instances in the next generation. For this
study, we also test two architectures (VGG16 and ResNet18) with population size
of on the CIFAR-10 dataset. The results are shown in Tab.  4 . 
 
 
 The key idea of lexicase selection is to select parent by using a sequence of
training cases that are prioritized lexicographically for each generation. In
this way, the population can maintain a high level of diversity. On the other
hand, momentum tends to find an aggregated direction of gradient update
accumulated through time. From the results, we can see that the Reset Momentum
option works the best, indicating that if we inherit momentum, it will influence
the mutation over generations and thus the selection strength of lexicase will
be negatively affected. By resetting momentum each epoch, only the mutation in
the current generation is accelerated by using momentum SGD, which results in a
higher diversity of offspring. In general, the momentum options can also be
viewed as different trade-offs of exploration and exploitation. 
 
 
 
 
 5.3 Representation Diversity 

 
 While quantitative results have shown that the proposed method manages to improve
the generalization of DNNs, we would like to further investigate the reasons
behind this in order to better understand the behavior of the algorithm. One
hypothesis is that since lexicase selection is able to increase the diversity
and generality of the population in GP, it may as well help DNNs learn more
diverse representations, which improves the overall model generalization. To
validate this, we analyze and compare the feature representations in ResNet-18
trained using normal SGD and gradient lexicase selection. We take the first 100
samples from the CIFAR-10 test set and use global max pooling to obtain the
channel-wise activations of conv_4x and conv_5x layers (as
defined in He et al. (2016) ). Fig.  2 shows the results. 
 
 
 
 We can observe that our method produces a flatter distribution of activations
with less frequency on s and more frequency on other values.
 Ioffe & Szegedy (2015) ; Wu & He (2018) shows that normalized distribution of layer
activations can help reduce the internal covariate shift of DNNs during
training, and thus improves the training efficiency and model generalization.
Similarly, our method manages to learn more diverse representations by
incorporating lexicase selection into the training framework, which is advantageous
to the generalization of DNNs. 
 
 
 
 
 6 Conclusion and Future Work 

 
 In this work, efficient adaption of lexicase selection in the task of optimizing
deep neural networks is explored. We propose gradient lexicase selection, an
evolutionary algorithm that incorporates lexicase selection with stochastic
gradient descent to help DNNs learn more diverse representations for better
generalization. Experimental results show that the proposed method can improve
the performance of several popular DNN architectures on benchmark image
classification datasets. Several ablation studies further validate the
robustness and advantages of our method from different perspectives. More
specifically, we investigate the trade-offs between exploration and exploitation
by analyzing the effects of population size and momentum. We also show that our
algorithm can produce better representation diversity, which is advantageous to
the generalization of DNNs. 
 
 
 The goal of our method is to improve the generalization performance rather than
speed up the optimization. Our method is potentially valuable to many real-world
problems, especially those safety-critical applications like autonomous
vehicles, where higher cost of computation during training is acceptable for
better generalization performance. There are also several factors to consider
regarding the computation cost: 1) our method expects parallel training of model
instances, so the optimal training time can be reduced to naive SGD training
with modern cloud computing facilities; 2) we have shown that with relatively
small population sizes ( naive SGD), our method can already achieve
significantly better performance; 3) with the same amount of computation, the
naive method (random selection baseline in Sec. 4.2 ) can not achieve
the same performance as ours. 
 
 
 There are several limitations of our work. As described in Sec.  4.1 ,
the current gradient lexicase selection method may not work with architectures
that have been extensively optimized, indicating a potential correlation between
network architecture and lexicase selection. For future work, we hope to explore how lexicase selection can be used in optimizing
neural architectures along with their parameters, and the integration of lexicase selection in neural architecture search in general. 
 
 
 Acknowledgments 

 
 This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation
under Grant No. 1617087. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or
recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the authors and do
not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.
This work was performed in part using high performance computing equipment
obtained under a grant from the Collaborative R&D Fund managed by the
Massachusetts Technology Collaborative.
The authors would like to thank Ryan Boldi, Edward Pantridge, Thomas Helmuth,
and Anil Saini for their valuable comments and helpful suggestions. 
 
 
 
 Reproducibility Statement 

 
 We submit our source code as the supplementary material for the review process,
which can be used to reproduce the experimental results in this work. We also
release our source code on Github:
 https://github.com/ld-ing/gradient-lexicase . Experiment configurations and
implementation details are described in Sec.  B . 
 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 Aenugu & Spector (2019) 
 
Sneha Aenugu and Lee Spector.

 
 Lexicase selection in learning classifier systems.

 
 In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation
Conference , pp. 356–364, 2019.

 
 
 Bottou (2010) 
 
Léon Bottou.

 
 Large-scale machine learning with stochastic gradient descent.

 
 In Proceedings of COMPSTAT’2010 , pp. 177–186. Springer,
2010.

 
 
 Cui et al. (2018) 
 
Xiaodong Cui, Wei Zhang, Zoltán Tüske, and Michael Picheny.

 
 Evolutionary stochastic gradient descent for optimization of deep
neural networks.

 
 Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 31, 2018.

 
 
 Ding & Spector (2021) 
 
Li Ding and Lee Spector.

 
 Evolving neural selection with adaptive regularization.

 
 In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation
Conference Companion , pp. 1717–1725, 2021.

 
 
 Elsken et al. (2019) 
 
Thomas Elsken, Jan Hendrik Metzen, and Frank Hutter.

 
 Neural architecture search: A survey.

 
 The Journal of Machine Learning Research , 20(1):1997–2017, 2019.

 
 
 Fieldsend & Moraglio (2015) 
 
Jonathan E Fieldsend and Alberto Moraglio.

 
 Strength through diversity: Disaggregation and multi-objectivisation
approaches for genetic programming.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2015 Annual Conference on Genetic and
Evolutionary Computation , pp. 1031–1038, 2015.

 
 
 Floreano et al. (2008) 
 
Dario Floreano, Peter Dürr, and Claudio Mattiussi.

 
 Neuroevolution: from architectures to learning.

 
 Evolutionary intelligence , 1(1):47–62,
2008.

 
 
 Galvan-Lopez et al. (2013) 
 
Edgar Galvan-Lopez, Brendan Cody-Kenny, Leonardo Trujillo, and Ahmed Kattan.

 
 Using semantics in the selection mechanism in genetic programming: a
simple method for promoting semantic diversity.

 
 In 2013 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation , pp. 2972–2979. IEEE, 2013.

 
 
 He et al. (2016) 
 
Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun.

 
 Deep residual learning for image recognition.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition , pp. 770–778, 2016.

 
 
 Helmuth & Kelly (2021) 
 
Thomas Helmuth and Peter Kelly.

 
 Psb2: the second program synthesis benchmark suite.

 
 In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation
Conference , pp. 785–794, 2021.

 
 
 Helmuth & Spector (2015) 
 
Thomas Helmuth and Lee Spector.

 
 General program synthesis benchmark suite.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2015 Annual Conference on Genetic and
Evolutionary Computation , pp. 1039–1046, 2015.

 
 
 Helmuth et al. (2014) 
 
Thomas Helmuth, Lee Spector, and James Matheson.

 
 Solving uncompromising problems with lexicase selection.

 
 IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation , 19(5):630–643, 2014.

 
 
 Helmuth et al. (2016) 
 
Thomas Helmuth, Nicholas Freitag McPhee, and Lee Spector.

 
 Lexicase selection for program synthesis: a diversity analysis.

 
 In Genetic Programming Theory and Practice XIII , pp. 151–167. Springer, 2016.

 
 
 Helmuth et al. (2018) 
 
Thomas Helmuth, Nicholas Freitag McPhee, and Lee Spector.

 
 Program synthesis using uniform mutation by addition and deletion.

 
 In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation
Conference , pp. 1127–1134, 2018.

 
 
 Holland (1992) 
 
John H Holland.

 
 Genetic algorithms.

 
 Scientific american , 267(1):66–73, 1992.

 
 
 Hu et al. (2018) 
 
Jie Hu, Li Shen, and Gang Sun.

 
 Squeeze-and-excitation networks.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition , pp. 7132–7141, 2018.

 
 
 Huang et al. (2017) 
 
Gao Huang, Zhuang Liu, Laurens Van Der Maaten, and Kilian Q Weinberger.

 
 Densely connected convolutional networks.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition , pp. 4700–4708, 2017.

 
 
 Huizinga & Clune (2018) 
 
Joost Huizinga and Jeff Clune.

 
 Evolving multimodal robot behavior via many stepping stones with the
combinatorial multi-objective evolutionary algorithm.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.03392 , 2018.

 
 
 Ioffe & Szegedy (2015) 
 
Sergey Ioffe and Christian Szegedy.

 
 Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network training by reducing
internal covariate shift.

 
 In International conference on machine learning , pp. 448–456. PMLR, 2015.

 
 
 Jaderberg et al. (2017) 
 
Max Jaderberg, Valentin Dalibard, Simon Osindero, Wojciech M Czarnecki, Jeff
Donahue, Ali Razavi, Oriol Vinyals, Tim Green, Iain Dunning, Karen Simonyan,
et al.

 
 Population based training of neural networks.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.09846 , 2017.

 
 
 Krawiec & Liskowski (2015) 
 
Krzysztof Krawiec and Paweł Liskowski.

 
 Automatic derivation of search objectives for test-based genetic
programming.

 
 In European Conference on Genetic Programming , pp. 53–65.
Springer, 2015.

 
 
 Krizhevsky et al. (2009) 
 
Alex Krizhevsky, Geoffrey Hinton, et al.

 
 Learning multiple layers of features from tiny images.

 
 Tech. Report , 2009.

 
 
 La Cava & Moore (2018) 
 
William La Cava and Jason Moore.

 
 Behavioral search drivers and the role of elitism in soft robotics.

 
 In ALIFE 2018: The 2018 Conference on Artificial Life , pp. 206–213. MIT Press, 2018.

 
 
 La Cava & Moore (2020a) 
 
William La Cava and Jason H Moore.

 
 Genetic programming approaches to learning fair classifiers.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2020 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation
Conference , pp. 967–975, 2020a.

 
 
 La Cava & Moore (2020b) 
 
William La Cava and Jason H Moore.

 
 Learning feature spaces for regression with genetic programming.

 
 Genetic Programming and Evolvable Machines , 21(3):433–467, 2020b.

 
 
 La Cava et al. (2016) 
 
William La Cava, Lee Spector, and Kourosh Danai.

 
 Epsilon-lexicase selection for regression.

 
 In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation
Conference 2016 , pp. 741–748, 2016.

 
 
 La Cava et al. (2019) 
 
William La Cava, Thomas Helmuth, Lee Spector, and Jason H Moore.

 
 A probabilistic and multi-objective analysis of lexicase selection
and -lexicase selection.

 
 Evolutionary Computation , 27(3):377–402,
2019.

 
 
 LeCun et al. (2015) 
 
Yann LeCun, Yoshua Bengio, and Geoffrey Hinton.

 
 Deep learning.

 
 nature , 521(7553):436–444, 2015.

 
 
 Liskowski et al. (2015) 
 
Pawel Liskowski, Krzysztof Krawiec, Thomas Helmuth, and Lee Spector.

 
 Comparison of semantic-aware selection methods in genetic
programming.

 
 In Proceedings of the Companion Publication of the 2015 Annual
Conference on Genetic and Evolutionary Computation , pp. 1301–1307, 2015.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2017) 
 
Hanxiao Liu, Karen Simonyan, Oriol Vinyals, Chrisantha Fernando, and Koray
Kavukcuoglu.

 
 Hierarchical representations for efficient architecture search.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.00436 , 2017.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2020) 
 
Yanli Liu, Yuan Gao, and Wotao Yin.

 
 An improved analysis of stochastic gradient descent with momentum.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.07989 , 2020.

 
 
 Loshchilov & Hutter (2017) 
 
Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter.

 
 SGDR: stochastic gradient descent with warm restarts.

 
 In 5th International Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR) , 2017.

 
 
 Luo et al. (2018) 
 
Liangchen Luo, Yuanhao Xiong, Yan Liu, and Xu Sun.

 
 Adaptive gradient methods with dynamic bound of learning rate.

 
 In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2018.

 
 
 Metevier et al. (2019) 
 
Blossom Metevier, Anil Kumar Saini, and Lee Spector.

 
 Lexicase selection beyond genetic programming.

 
 In Genetic Programming Theory and Practice XVI , pp. 123–136. Springer, 2019.

 
 
 Miikkulainen et al. (2019) 
 
Risto Miikkulainen, Jason Liang, Elliot Meyerson, Aditya Rawal, Daniel Fink,
Olivier Francon, Bala Raju, Hormoz Shahrzad, Arshak Navruzyan, Nigel Duffy,
et al.

 
 Evolving deep neural networks.

 
 In Artificial intelligence in the age of neural networks and
brain computing , pp. 293–312. Elsevier, 2019.

 
 
 Miller et al. (1995) 
 
Brad L Miller, David E Goldberg, et al.

 
 Genetic algorithms, tournament selection, and the effects of noise.

 
 Complex systems , 9(3):193–212, 1995.

 
 
 Netzer et al. (2011) 
 
Yuval Netzer, Tao Wang, Adam Coates, Alessandro Bissacco, Bo Wu, and Andrew Y
Ng.

 
 Reading digits in natural images with unsupervised feature learning.

 
 NeurIPS Workshop on Deep Learning and Unsupervised Feature
Learning , 2011.

 
 
 Pawełczyk et al. (2018) 
 
Krzysztof Pawełczyk, Michal Kawulok, and Jakub Nalepa.

 
 Genetically-trained deep neural networks.

 
 In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation
Conference Companion , pp. 63–64, 2018.

 
 
 Real et al. (2017) 
 
Esteban Real, Sherry Moore, Andrew Selle, Saurabh Saxena, Yutaka Leon Suematsu,
Jie Tan, Quoc V Le, and Alexey Kurakin.

 
 Large-scale evolution of image classifiers.

 
 In International Conference on Machine Learning , pp. 2902–2911. PMLR, 2017.

 
 
 Real et al. (2019) 
 
Esteban Real, Alok Aggarwal, Yanping Huang, and Quoc V Le.

 
 Regularized evolution for image classifier architecture search.

 
 In Proceedings of the aaai conference on artificial
intelligence , volume 33, pp. 4780–4789, 2019.

 
 
 Rumelhart et al. (1985) 
 
David E Rumelhart, Geoffrey E Hinton, and Ronald J Williams.

 
 Learning internal representations by error propagation.

 
 Technical report, California Univ San Diego La Jolla Inst for
Cognitive Science, 1985.

 
 
 Russakovsky et al. (2015) 
 
Olga Russakovsky, Jia Deng, Hao Su, Jonathan Krause, Sanjeev Satheesh, Sean Ma,
Zhiheng Huang, Andrej Karpathy, Aditya Khosla, Michael Bernstein, et al.

 
 Imagenet large scale visual recognition challenge.

 
 International journal of computer vision , 115(3):211–252, 2015.

 
 
 Sandler et al. (2018) 
 
Mark Sandler, Andrew Howard, Menglong Zhu, Andrey Zhmoginov, and Liang-Chieh
Chen.

 
 Mobilenetv2: Inverted residuals and linear bottlenecks.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition , pp. 4510–4520, 2018.

 
 
 Simonyan & Zisserman (2015) 
 
Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman.

 
 Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image recognition.

 
 In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2015.

 
 
 Spector (2012) 
 
Lee Spector.

 
 Assessment of problem modality by differential performance of
lexicase selection in genetic programming: a preliminary report.

 
 In Proceedings of the 14th annual conference companion on
Genetic and evolutionary computation , pp. 401–408, 2012.

 
 
 Stanley & Miikkulainen (2002) 
 
Kenneth O Stanley and Risto Miikkulainen.

 
 Evolving neural networks through augmenting topologies.

 
 Evolutionary computation , 10(2):99–127,
2002.

 
 
 Such et al. (2017) 
 
Felipe Petroski Such, Vashisht Madhavan, Edoardo Conti, Joel Lehman, Kenneth O
Stanley, and Jeff Clune.

 
 Deep neuroevolution: Genetic algorithms are a competitive alternative
for training deep neural networks for reinforcement learning.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.06567 , 2017.

 
 
 Sutskever et al. (2013) 
 
Ilya Sutskever, James Martens, George Dahl, and Geoffrey Hinton.

 
 On the importance of initialization and momentum in deep learning.

 
 In International conference on machine learning , pp. 1139–1147. PMLR, 2013.

 
 
 Tan & Le (2019) 
 
Mingxing Tan and Quoc Le.

 
 Efficientnet: Rethinking model scaling for convolutional neural
networks.

 
 In International Conference on Machine Learning , pp. 6105–6114. PMLR, 2019.

 
 
 Wilson et al. (2017) 
 
Ashia C Wilson, Rebecca Roelofs, Mitchell Stern, Nathan Srebro, and Benjamin
Recht.

 
 The marginal value of adaptive gradient methods in machine learning.

 
 In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems , pp. 4151–4161, 2017.

 
 
 Wu & He (2018) 
 
Yuxin Wu and Kaiming He.

 
 Group normalization.

 
 In Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision
(ECCV) , pp. 3–19, 2018.

 
 
 Xie & Yuille (2017) 
 
Lingxi Xie and Alan Yuille.

 
 Genetic cnn.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer
vision , pp. 1379–1388, 2017.

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2017) 
 
Chiyuan Zhang, Samy Bengio, Moritz Hardt, Benjamin Recht, and Oriol Vinyals.

 
 Understanding deep learning requires rethinking generalization.

 
 In 5th International Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR) , 2017.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A Lexicase Selection 

 
 Lexicase selection is a parent selection method in population-based stochastic
search algorithms such as genetic
programming  ( Helmuth et al., 2014 ; Spector, 2012 ) . The lexicase
selection algorithm is outlined in Alg.  2 . 
 
 
 
 The key idea of lexicase selection is that each selection event considers a
randomly shuffled sequence of training cases. With the specific ordering, only
individuals whose error is minimal among all the already-considered cases are
allowed to survive. Moving forward through the sequence of cases, the selection
is done when there is only one candidate left or until all the training cases
have been gone through, in which case we select randomly from the remaining
candidates. 
 
 
 Since the ordering of training cases is randomized for each selection event,
every training case gets the opportunity to be prioritized when being put at the
beginning of the sequence. As a result, lexicase selection sometimes selects
specialist individuals that perform poorly on average but perform better than
many individuals on one or more other cases. 
 
 
 
 Appendix B Implementation Details 

 
 Each network architecture with baseline SGD training and its corresponding
counterpart with gradient lexicase selection are trained with identical
experimental schemes. We use SGD with momentum instead of the popular adaptive
methods (such as Adam) because, despite the popularity of those methods, some
recent works  ( Luo et al., 2018 ; Wilson et al., 2017 ) observe that the
solutions found by those methods actually generalize worse (often significantly
worse) than SGD. We did experiments with Adam and tuned the learning rate for
several trials, but the results are significantly worse than the SGD
counterpart. This work focuses more on the generalization performance rather
than the training speed, so we follow the common practice to use SGD with
momentum for both baseline training and SubGD. However, it is very likely that
some most recent optimization methods, such as Luo et al. (2018) , can
achieve faster training as well as the same generalization performance as SGD. 
 
 
 We follow standard practices and perform data augmentation with random cropping
with padding and perform random horizontal flipping during the training phase
(no augmentation is used during selection phase). The input images are
normalized through mean RGB-channel subtraction for all the phases. For both
baseline and lexicase, we use SGD with momentum of . For lexicase, we use
the Reset Momentum option that re-initialize the momentum parameters for each
epoch, which is explained in detail later in Sec.  5.2 . 
 
 
 The batch size is set to for CIFAR-10 and for CIFAR-100 and SVHN. The
initial learning rate is set to and tuned by using Cosine
Annealing  ( Loshchilov & Hutter, 2017 ) . 
 
 
 We set the total number of epochs as for baseline training and as
 for gradient lexicase selection, where is the size of population.
For each epoch in lexicase, the mutation only uses of the training data to
train each model instance, so we keep the total iterations of weight update of
lexicase training similar to baseline training to ensure convergence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
