 
 
 
 W-PCA Based Gradient-Free Proxy for Efficient Search of Lightweight Language Models 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 2 Related Work 
 
 2.1 Lightweight BERT Models 
 2.2 One-shot NAS for Efficient Models 
 2.3 Zero-shot NAS 
 
 3 Our Gradient-free Weight-weighted PCA Proxy 
 
 3.1 Motivation for using PCA 
 3.2 Vanilla PCA Proxy 
 3.3 Weight-weighted PCA Proxy 
 
 4 Search Space for NLU Tasks 
 5 Ranking Evaluation 
 
 5.1 Datasets 
 5.2 Results and Analysis 
 
 6 Accuracy Comparision 
 
 6.1 Datasets 
 6.2 Implementation Details 
 
 6.2.1 Search Space 
 6.2.2 Training 
 
 6.3 Results on GLUE 
 
 6.3.1 Model Accuracy and Latency 
 6.3.2 Search Efficiency 
 
 6.4 Results on SQuAD 
 6.5 Ablations 
 
 7 Conclusion 
 References 
 A Why BERT and MobileBERT? 
 B Training
Details of the FlexiBERT Search Space 
 C Ablations of Ranking Evaluation 
 D Robustness with Different ’s 
 E Implementation Details of Genetic Algorithm 
 
 E.1 Encode 
 E.2 Crossover 
 E.3 Mutation 
 
 F KD Loss Function 
 G Visualization of Architectures 
 H More Ablations on Accuracy Comparision 
 
 H.1 Different Initializations 
 H.2 Comparison of Larger-sized Models 
 H.3 Comparison with One-shot NAS 
 H.4 Experiments on EfficientBERT Search Space 
 
 I Causal Language Modeling Task 
 
 I.1 Setup 
 I.2 Quantitative Results on Language Benchmarks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: CC BY 4.0
 
 
arXiv:2504.15983v1 [cs.CL] 22 Apr 2025 
 
 
 W-PCA Based Gradient-Free Proxy for Efficient Search of Lightweight Language Models 
 
 
 Shang Wang
 
 Affiliation:  ShanghaiTech University
 
 Email:  wangshang2024@shanghaitech.edu.cn 
 

 Abstract 
 
 The demand for efficient natural language processing (NLP) systems has led to the development of lightweight language models. Previous work in this area has primarily focused on manual design or training-based neural architecture search (NAS) methods. Recently, zero-shot NAS methods have been proposed for evaluating language models without the need for training. However, prevailing approaches to zero-shot NAS often face challenges such as biased evaluation metrics and computational inefficiencies.
In this paper, we introduce weight-weighted PCA (W-PCA), a novel zero-shot NAS method specifically tailored for lightweight language models. Our approach utilizes two evaluation proxies: the parameter count and the number of principal components with cumulative contribution exceeding in the feed-forward neural (FFN) layer. Additionally, by eliminating the need for gradient computations, we optimize the evaluation time, thus enhancing the efficiency of designing and evaluating lightweight language models.
We conduct a comparative analysis on the GLUE and SQuAD datasets to evaluate our approach. The results demonstrate that our method significantly reduces training time compared to one-shot NAS methods and achieves higher scores in the testing phase compared to previous state-of-the-art training-based methods. Furthermore, we perform ranking evaluations on a dataset sampled from the FlexiBERT search space. Our approach exhibits superior ranking correlation and further reduces solving time compared to other zero-shot NAS methods that require gradient computation. 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 

 
 
 Large language models (LLMs) have shown exceptional performance across various domains ( OpenAI 2023 ) . However, their size and computational demands pose challenges in resource-constrained environments like mobile devices and edge computing. Therefore, there is a growing need to explore lightweight language models that can operate efficiently on these platforms. One approach to address this challenge is through knowledge distillation (KD) ( Liu et al. 2023 ; Li et al. 2023c ; Li & Jin 2022 ; Li et al. 2023b ; Li 2022 ; Li et al. 2024a ) , where a larger language model acts as a teacher to train a smaller, more lightweight language model ( Turc et al. 2019 ; Sanh et al. 2020 ; Jiao et al. 2020 ; Sun et al. 2020 ; Wang et al. 2020 ) . However, the student models trained for these tasks were manually designed. To effectively search for student models, the use of neural architecture search (NAS) has become essential. 
 
 
 NAS is a technique that automates the process of designing neural networks, enabling the exploration of a wide range of architectures to identify the most optimal ones for a given task. Vanilla NAS approaches primarily used reinforcement learning ( Zoph & Le 2016 ) or genetic algorithms ( Real et al. 2019 ) to train neural networks from scratch, but these methods were computationally expensive. Subsequently, one-shot NAS methods, such as gradient-based ( Liu et al. 2018 ) and single path one-shot (SPOS) methods ( Guo et al. 2020 ) , were proposed. These methods are more efficient as they leverage pre-trained models or parameter sharing, requiring the establishment of a supernet in advance from which to sample the optimal subnetworks. Importantly, many lightweight model search tasks in natural language understanding (NLU) are accomplished using one-shot NAS ( Xu et al. 2021 ; Dong et al. 2021 ; Gao et al. 2022 ) . While one-shot NAS reduces training costs compared to training from scratch, it still requires various training strategies to effectively train the supernet. However, to further enhance search efficiency, it is necessary to introduce zero-shot NAS ( Mellor et al. 2021a ) . Zero-shot, also known as training-free NAS, is a promising approach that eliminates the need for training neural networks and directly evaluates their performance using proxy metrics. This significantly reduces the training time and computational resources required for NAS. 
 
 
 Existing zero-shot NAS methods ( Abdelfattah et al. 2020 ; Wei et al. 2024 ; Dong et al. 2023a ; Dong et al. 2023b ) have primarily focused on ranking correlations on NAS benchmark datasets ( Klyuchnikov et al. 2022 ) , with limited consideration for specific deep learning tasks. This limitation hinders their applicability and effectiveness in practical scenarios. Additionally, these methods often solely consider a single feature of the models, leading to biased evaluations and potentially overlooking important characteristics. 
 
 
 In our research, we aim to address these limitations and improve the applicability of zero-shot NAS.
In Section 5 , we conducted ranking correlation experiments. As illustrated in Figure 2 , our attempts to incorporate previous zero-shot proxies into language model evaluation yielded unsatisfactory results.
However, we observed a strong correlation in ranking between principal component analysis (PCA) and the number of parameters (#params), with their product demonstrating even better performance. 
 
 
 Motivated by these findings, we propose a novel approach called Weight-Weighted PCA (W-PCA), which takes into account both the parameter count and the number of principal components with cumulative contribution exceeding a given threshold in the model. By integrating these two factors, our aim is to achieve a more accurate evaluation of language models in the context of zero-shot NAS. Furthermore, we have designed a search space specifically for NLU tasks and applied our designed zero-shot proxies, as well as the previous zero-shot proxies used in Transformer, to this search space. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that applies zero-shot NAS to NLU tasks. 
 
 
 
 
 2 Related Work 

 
 2.1 Lightweight BERT Models 

 
 Turc et al. 2019 observed that distillation and pre-training + fine-tuning have mutually reinforcing effects. DistilBERT ( Sanh et al. 2020 ) utilizes a triple loss function for training the lightweight model. TinyBERT ( Jiao et al. 2020 ) applies distillation in both the pre-training and task-specific learning phases. MobileBERT ( Sun et al. 2020 ) proposes a bottleneck structure to reduce the parameter count. MiniLM ( Wang et al. 2020 ) introduces a compression method called deep self-attentive distillation. In this study, we incorporate both the standard BERT-base ( Devlin et al. 2019 ) and MobileBERT models, along with their weight-sharing variations, where each layer is integrated into the supernet. 
 
 
 
 2.2 One-shot NAS for Efficient Models 

 
 Numerous methods have been proposed for performing neural architecture search (NAS)  ( Hu et al. 2021 ; Dong et al. 2022 ; Sun et al. 2024 ; Li et al. 2024d ; Li et al. 2024c ) to develop efficient models. NAS-BERT ( Xu et al. 2021 ) trains a large supernet on a carefully designed search space that includes diverse architectures, generating multiple compressed models with adaptable sizes and latency. EfficientBERT ( Dong et al. 2021 ) proposes a three-stage coarse-to-fine search scheme to optimize the combination of the multilayer perceptron (MLP) in the feed-forward network (FFN), ultimately reducing the parameter count of the FFN. AutoBERT-Zero ( Gao et al. 2022 ) devises a search space that includes unary and binary math operators for constructing attention structures and backbones for general pre-trained language models (PLMs) from scratch. To the best of our knowledge, it is the most recent NAS method that incorporates lightweight BERT models in the experiment. 
 
 
 
 2.3 Zero-shot NAS 

 
 Zero-shot NAS has been applied to transformer-based architectures in several ways. We provide a summary of these applications below. 
 
 
 Synaptic Saliency ( Tanaka et al. 2020 ) aims to prevent layer collapse during network pruning, as this collapse can significantly reduce the accuracy of the network. The formulation for this approach is expressed as follows: 
 
 where represents the loss function, denotes the network’s parameters, and is the Hadamard product. Abdelfattah et al. 2020 generalize synaptic saliency as a zero-shot metric for NAS by summing over all
 parameters in the network: 
 
 
 Synaptic Diversity builds upon previous research on rank collapse in transformers. In this phenomenon, the output of a multihead attention block tends to converge to rank 1 for a given set of inputs, which significantly impairs the performance of the transformer. Zhou et al. 2022 propose a method that utilizes the nuclear norm of an attention head’s weight matrix as an approximation of its rank. This approach leads to the computation of the synaptic diversity score as follows: 
 
 
 
 Activation Distance is a proxy metric introduced by Mellor et al. 2021a to assess the ReLU activations of a network. By computing the Hamming distance between the activations within the initialized network for each input in a minibatch, this metric determines the similarity of the activation maps. The authors observe that when the activation maps for a given set of inputs exhibit higher similarity, the network faces greater difficulty in disentangling the input representations during the training process. 
 
 
 Jacobian Covariance 
evaluates the Jacobian of the network’s loss function with respect to the minibatch inputs.
Further details of this metric can be found in the original paper ( Mellor et al. 2021b ) . 
 
 
 Jacobian Cosine ( Celotti et al. 2020 ) is proposed as an improvement to the Jacobian Covariance metric, aiming to enhance computation speed and effectiveness. This improvement involves utilizing cosine similarity instead of a covariance matrix to measure similarity. The metric is computed as follows: 
 
 Here, represents the normalized Jacobian, and is the identity matrix. The metric is computed using a minibatch of inputs. In their large noise and more noised scores, the authors introduce various noise levels to the input minibatch, hypothesizing that architectures exhibiting high accuracy will demonstrate robustness against noise. 
 
 
 Attention Confidence, Importance, and
Softmax Confidence 
"Confident" attention heads exhibit high attention towards a single token, indicating their potential importance to the transformer’s task. Researchers have proposed different approaches to calculating confidence, including examining the softmax layer of the attention head and analyzing the sensitivity of the attention head to weight masking by computing the product between the attention head’s output and the gradient of its weights.
 Serianni & Kalita 2023 summarize the findings from ( Voita et al. 2019 ; Behnke & Heafield 2020 ; Michel et al. 2019 ) regarding the following metrics: 
 
 
 Confidence: 
 
 
 Softmax Confidence: 
 
 
 Importance: 
 
 
 where represents a minibatch of inputs, 
denotes the loss function of the model, and and 
denote an attention head and its softmax, respectively.
To obtain an overall metric for the entire network, Serianni & Kalita 2023 extend these scores by averaging them across all attention heads:
 
 
 
 
 
 3 Our Gradient-free Weight-weighted PCA Proxy 

 
 3.1 Motivation for using PCA 

 
 
 
 Figure 3: (a) and (b) show the PCA score curves for BERT ( Devlin et al. 2019 ) and MobileBERT ( Sun et al. 2020 ) , respectively, at different epochs during training ( =0.99). (c) presents the progression of GLUE scores for BERT and MobileBERT over training epochs. 
 
 
 Inspired by the work in Pan et al. 2023 , which leverages PCA to optimize the training of Vision Transformers, we analyzed the trends in PCA variation during the training of BERT and MobileBERT. From Figure 3 , we can draw the following conclusions: 
 
 
 1. Tracking performance via PCA. As shown in Figure 3 , the overall GLUE score and the PCA values for each layer progressively increase with the number of training epochs. This indicates that PCA values effectively reflect the performance of the neural network. Specifically, the steady rise in PCA values suggests that the network’s internal representations become more structured and discriminative. 
 
 
 2. Diminishing returns after peak performance. Our observations also revealed that after reaching peak values, the PCA curves flatten out, indicating that further training yields diminishing returns. This aligns with the conclusions in Table 13 , where we discussed that prolonged training results in minimal performance gains. 
 
 
 3. Early PCA values as predictors. Notably, layers with higher PCA values at epoch 0 (i.e., before training begins) tend to maintain higher PCA values throughout training. This led us to hypothesize that the initial PCA values could serve as effective indicators for comparing neural network architectures during the NAS phase. 
 
 
 To validate these hypotheses, we conducted experiments as shown in Figure 2 , which confirmed that early PCA values correlate well with the final performance ranking of the networks. This insight motivated us to further pursue accuracy comparison experiments, yielding promising results. 
 
 
 
 3.2 Vanilla PCA Proxy 

 
 For a given , the distribution of PCA principal component values reflects the proportion of useful information in the matrix. We attempt to use this distribution as a metric for evaluating neural network performance. Our metric is computed as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Here, represents a minibatch of inputs, where represents the batch size, is the token length, and represents the embedding dimension. represents the cumulative contribution rate of principal components. We calculate the PCA values for the hidden states after the initial linear transformation in the FFN layer. Specifically, if we express the FFN layer as: 
 
 Then, we compute the PCA value of the part, denoted as in the following text, where represents the hidden dimension. To compute the PCA values, we first reshape into a two-dimensional matrix . Then, we subtract the mean of each feature (column) from the data to center it: 
 
 
 
 
 
 We then calculate the covariance matrix of the centered data as: 
 
 
 
 Next, we perform an eigenvalue decomposition on the covariance matrix to obtain eigenvalues ( ) and eigenvectors ( ): 
 
 Here, is a diagonal matrix of eigenvalues and is the matrix of eigenvectors. After sorting each eigenvalue in descending order, we determine the minimum number of eigenvectors required to explain at least variance: 
 
 
 
 This value of represents the required . By analyzing PCA_dim (the dimensions with PCA values exceeding a threshold ), we can identify the dimensions that contain a higher amount of valuable information. 
 
 
 The metric for an -layer neural network model is obtained by summing over all layers, resulting in: 
 
 
 
 Here, the metric represents the PCA-based value for a specific layer . 
 
 
 Finally, to compute the overall metric for an -layer neural network model, we sum the layer-specific metrics over all layers. By utilizing this methodology, we can effectively assess the performance of candidate architectures based on their PCA values and identify the dimensions that contribute significantly to the valuable information in the hidden states. 
 
 
 
 3.3 Weight-weighted PCA Proxy 

 
 It is extremely challenging to discover or design a proxy that outperforms weight parameters (#Params) in terms of stability and performance ( Li et al. 2023a ) . After identifying PCA as an excellent proxy, multiplying it with #Params is a worthwhile attempt, as the additional computation time for a proxy is negligible compared to training neural networks. Thus, we propose a new metric called W-PCA, which quantifies the amount of valuable information captured by each dimension relative to the number of parameters in the architecture. 
 
 
 The W-PCA metric is computed as the product of the number of weight parameters ( ) and the PCA value for each dimension. Mathematically, it can be expressed as: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Advantages of our method include: 
 
 
 1. Strong Correlation: The W-PCA metric captures the relationship between the number of parameters and the valuable information in each dimension. This relevance is crucial in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of candidate architectures. By considering the PCA values, we can identify dimensions that contribute the most to the architecture’s performance, allowing for informed decision-making during architecture search. 
 
 
 2. Gradient-Free: Unlike many traditional optimization methods that rely on gradients, our methodology is gradient-free. This eliminates the need for extensive backpropagation and derivative calculations, making the evaluation process more efficient and less computationally expensive. 
 
 
 3. One forward propagation only: Our methodology requires only forward propagation during the evaluation of candidate architectures. This simplifies the implementation and reduces the computational overhead, as it avoids the need for complex and resource-intensive operations such as backpropagation. 
 
 
 By leveraging the advantages of strong relevance, gradient-freeness, and the use of only forward propagation, our methodology based on the W-PCA metric provides an efficient and effective approach for training-free architecture search. It enables researchers and practitioners to evaluate candidate architectures based on their valuable information content relative to the number of parameters, facilitating the exploration of architecture design space and aiding in the development of more efficient and effective models. 
 
 
 
 
 4 Search Space for NLU Tasks 

 
 To enhance the evaluation of W-PCA’s performance on NLU tasks, we have meticulously crafted a search space. Drawing inspiration from SPOS ( Guo et al. 2020 ) , our search targets a model comprised of multiple layers, with each layer capable of being a lightweight BERT model. The hidden dimension of the FFN layer within each BERT block is determined through random selection. This deliberate randomness aids in exploring a diverse range of architectures during the search process. 
 
 
 
 
 5 Ranking Evaluation 

 
 5.1 Datasets 

 
 To assess the accuracy of the proposed proxy indicators for neural network evaluation, we employed a benchmark consisting of a well-trained BERT structure suggested by Serianni & Kalita 2023 as the testing dataset. Specifically, this benchmark selected 500 structures from the FlexiBERT ( Tuli et al. 2023 ) search space (as presented in Table 7 ) and utilized ELECTRA ( Clark et al. 2020 ) , rather than the MLM method, for training to efficiently pretrain a compact BERT model. The training dataset comprised 8,013,769 documents sourced from the OpenWebText ( Gokaslan et al. 2019 ) corpus, amounting to a total of 38GB. For detailed training information, please refer to Appendix B . After training, the scores obtained by fine-tuning on the GLUE dataset will serve as the reference for evaluating the correlation among different zero-shot proxies. 
 
 
 
 5.2 Results and Analysis 

 
 
 The evaluation results include the Kendall rank correlation coefficient (Kendall ) and the Spearman rank correlation coefficient (Spearman ). Table 1 demonstrates that Vanilla PCA has already surpassed the previous zero-shot proxy in terms of ranking correlation, and W-PCA performs even better than Vanilla PCA. Furthermore, W-PCA achieves higher computational efficiency than proxies due to the absence of gradient computation. In Appendix C , we compare the ranking stability of W-PCA with other zero-shot metrics using different initialization weights and batch inputs. 
 
 
 
 
 6 Accuracy Comparision 

 
 6.1 Datasets 

 
 To enable an accurate comparison to other lightweight BERT models, we evaluate the performance of W-PCA using the GLUE ( Wang et al. 2018 ) and SQuAD ( Rajpurkar et al. 2016 ) datasets and their corresponding task-specific evaluations. 
 
 
 
 6.2 Implementation Details 

 
 6.2.1 Search Space 

 
 The search space is illustrated in Figure 4 , wherein we set the values of and to 12 and 6, respectively. Each block possesses a hidden size of 528, with the inner hidden size of the MobileBERT series blocks being one-fourth of the total hidden size. The hidden dimensions of the FFN increase by a factor of 132 for each multiple ranging from 1 to . To calculate the value of , we set to 0.99, with the selection process detailed in Appendix D . To identify the combination of blocks that yields the highest PCA value, we utilize a genetic algorithm, the detailed implementation of which can be found in Appendix E . This algorithm uses a population size of 50 and a generation count of 40. The crossover probability is set to 1, the mutation probability to 0.1, and the upper limit for the model parameters is set to 15.7M, resulting in the W-PCA-Small model. By further reducing the upper limit for the model parameters to 10M and halving the number of layers ( ), we obtain the W-PCA-Tiny model. 
 
 
 
 6.2.2 Training 

 
 Once we obtain the desired architecture, we pretrain the model using the complete English Wikipedia ( Devlin et al. 2019 ) and BooksCorpus ( Zhu et al. 2015 ) . We then proceed to fine-tune the model on each individual downstream task. During pretraining, the network is trained with a batch size set to 256. For the fine-tuning phase of the downstream tasks, the network is trained with a batch size set to 32. The CoLA task is trained for 50 epochs, while the other tasks are trained for 10 epochs. The learning rate is set at 0.0001 during pretraining. In the fine-tuning phase, the learning rate is set at 0.00005 for GLUE tasks and 0.0001 for SQuAD tasks. The training process utilizes the Adam optimizer with
 
and
 
values set at 0.9 and 0.999, respectively. The weight decay is set to 0.01. The learning rate decays linearly with a warm-up ratio set to 0.1. The KD loss function used in our approach is described in Appendix F . 
 
 
 
 
 6.3 Results on GLUE 

 
 6.3.1 Model Accuracy and Latency 

 
 Table 2 presents the results of the GLUE scores and model latency for the KD-based methods. Among them, except for the BERT-base teacher model we used ourselves, the results of all the manual and one-shot methods in the table are from relevant papers. Since zero-shot NAS methods have not been used in NLU tasks before, we applied the recent top-performing zero-shot proxy approaches on Transformer language models to the search space shown in Figure 4 . 
 
 
 
 As shown in Table 2 , under the search space depicted in Figure 4 , our W-PCA metric achieved higher average scores on the GLUE test set compared to all baseline manual and one-shot methods. At the same time, it outperformed the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) method EfficientBERT ( Dong et al. 2021 ) 
in terms of parameter count, latency, and average score in the field of lightweight models. Additionally, W-PCA achieved the highest score on the STS-B task. It is worth noting that, in the same search space, the optimal structure found by W-PCA surpasses all previous zero-shot methods ( Abdelfattah et al. 2020 ; Mellor et al. 2021a ; Zhou et al. 2022 ; Serianni & Kalita 2023 ) 
applied to Transformer language models, highlighting its exceptional ability in exploring optimal network structures in zero-shot NAS methods. 
 
 
 
 6.3.2 Search Efficiency 

 
 As shown in Table 3 , under our search space, the search efficiency of all zero-shot proxies (including our W-PCA method) has been improved by two to three orders of magnitude compared to previous training-based NAS, and achieved competitive performance. The three zero-shot proxies, Synaptic Diversity ( Zhou et al. 2022 ) , Head Confidence ( Serianni & Kalita 2023 ) , and Softmax Confidence ( Serianni & Kalita 2023 ) , can compete with the optimal structures found by previous training-based NAS in our search space. Our W-PCA method surpasses all previous training-based methods in the field of lightweight language models in terms of average score and achieves the best average score. Moreover, in three out of eight tasks, W-PCA achieves the highest performance. Our method discovers the latest SOTA effects in the field of lightweight models with almost negligible search cost, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by two to three orders of magnitude 
 1 
 
 
 
 A reduction of 0.34k lbs and 3.4k lbs of emissions for every 100-fold and 1,000-fold, respectively ( Strubell et al. 2019 ) . , and significantly improving the utilization of global energy resources. 
 
 
 
 It is also worth noting that in the internal comparison of zero-shot proxies, Head Confidence ( Serianni & Kalita 2023 ) , Softmax Confidence ( Serianni & Kalita 2023 ) , and our W-PCA method require shorter search time than the Synaptic Diversity ( Zhou et al. 2022 ) method, which needs to compute gradients, by an additional 0.2 GPU days. Additionally, our W-PCA-Tiny model has a lower parameter limit set during the search, resulting in slightly lower computation time for the forward propagation of each neural network individual, thus reducing the search time by 0.1 GPU days compared to the W-PCA-Small model. 
 
 
 
 
 6.4 Results on SQuAD 

 
 
 We compared the W-PCA proposed in this article with manually designed lightweight models, namely TinyBERT ( Jiao et al. 2020 ) , MiniLM ( Wang et al. 2020 ) , and the one-shot NAS method EfficientBERT ( Dong et al. 2021 ) , on the SQuAD dataset. The results are presented in Table 4 . Despite having fewer parameters than TinyBERT-4, MiniLM-6, and Efficient++, the W-PCA-Small model outperforms these methods in terms of both EM and F1 scores on both the SQuAD v1.1 and SQuAD v2.0 datasets. This observation demonstrates the robust adaptability of the investigated models across diverse datasets. 
 
 
 
 6.5 Ablations 

 
 
 In order to investigate the effects of each component of W-PCA on the experimental results, we performed ablation experiments. Specifically, we utilized the components of W-PCA, as described in Equation ( 8 ) where the first component is the number of parameters (#Params) and the second component is the V-PCA value (defined in Equation ( 7 )), as fitness values for the genetic algorithm to explore the optimal network structure in Section 6.2.1 . We then compared the performance of the discovered network structures with W-PCA. 
 
 
 The results, presented in Table 5 , demonstrate that by multiplying the number of parameters with the V-PCA value and using W-PCA as the zero-shot evaluation metric, the performance of the searched networks significantly improves compared to using either #Params or V-PCA alone as the evaluation metric. 
 
 
 Encouragingly, the incorporation of an extra feature does not necessitate a significant rise in computational time, thereby rendering the multiplication approach highly efficient. For further ablations, please refer to Appendix H . 
 
 
 
 
 7 Conclusion 

 
 In this paper, we propose W-PCA
 
 2 
 
 
 
 Our implementation of W-PCA is available: https://github.com/ra225/W-PCA ,
and significantly improving the utilization of global energy resources., a novel zero-shot NAS method specifically designed for lightweight language models. In the ranking correlation experiments conducted on the search space of FlexiBERT, W-PCA achieves a Kendall score that surpasses the previous method by 0.220 and a Spearman score that surpasses the previous method by 0.334.
In the accuracy experiments conducted on GLUE and SQuAD, W-PCA not only achieves the highest score, but also significantly improves search efficiency. On the GLUE test set, W-PCA improves search efficiency by over a hundredfold compared to the previous best-performing one-shot NAS method, with an average score improvement of 0.3. On the GLUE dev set, W-PCA improves search efficiency by 2,000 times and achieves an average score improvement of 0.9 compared to the previous best-performing one-shot NAS method. In future work, we will extend our approach to more compression tasks  ( Dong et al. 2024a ; Li et al. 2024b ; Li et al. 2024e ; Dong et al. 2024b ) .
Our work contributes to the advancement of NAS methods for lightweight language models, enabling the design and optimization of efficient and effective systems for natural language processing. 
 
 
 Limitations 
This work focuses on the ranking correlation tasks commonly addressed in prior zero-shot NAS methods and on NLU tasks relevant to lightweight models. However, recent language model research increasingly centers on generative models with over 1B parameters. In Appendix I , we further discuss potential extensions related to these large-scale generative models. 
 
 
 Acknowledgments 

 
 Special thanks to Professor Yajun Ha from ShanghaiTech University. During the resubmission of this paper to ICLR, he helped us summarize the contributions of the paper and suggested a more suitable title. 
 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 Abdelfattah et al. (2020) 
 
Mohamed S Abdelfattah, Abhinav Mehrotra, Łukasz Dudziak, and Nicholas Donald Lane.

 
 Zero-cost proxies for lightweight nas.

 
 In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2020.

 
 
 Behnke & Heafield (2020) 
 
Maximiliana Behnke and Kenneth Heafield.

 
 Losing heads in the lottery: Pruning transformer attention in neural machine translation.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) , pp. 2664–2674, 2020.

 
 
 Celotti et al. (2020) 
 
Luca Celotti, Ismael Balafrej, and Emmanuel Calvet.

 
 Improving zero-shot neural architecture search with parameters scoring.

 
 2020.

 
 
 Chiang et al. (2023) 
 
Wei-Lin Chiang, Zhuohan Li, Zi Lin, Ying Sheng, Zhanghao Wu, Hao Zhang, Lianmin Zheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Yonghao Zhuang, Joseph E Gonzalez, et al.

 
 Vicuna: An open-source chatbot impressing gpt-4 with 90%* chatgpt quality.

 
 See https://vicuna. lmsys. org (accessed 14 April 2023) , 2023.

 
 
 Clark et al. (2020) 
 
Kevin Clark, Minh-Thang Luong, Quoc V Le, and Christopher D Manning.

 
 Electra: Pre-training text encoders as discriminators rather than generators.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.10555 , 2020.

 
 
 Conover et al. (2023) 
 
Mike Conover, Matt Hayes, Ankit Mathur, Jianwei Xie, Jun Wan, Sam Shah, Ali Ghodsi, Patrick Wendell, Matei Zaharia, and Reynold Xin.

 
 Free dolly: Introducing the world’s first truly open instruction-tuned llm, 2023.

 
 URL https://www.databricks.com/blog/2023/04/12/dolly-first-open-commercially-viable-instruction-tuned-llm .

 
 
 Devlin et al. (2019) 
 
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova.

 
 Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) , pp. 4171–4186, 2019.

 
 
 Dong et al. (2021) 
 
Chenhe Dong, Guangrun Wang, Hang Xu, Jiefeng Peng, Xiaozhe Ren, and Xiaodan Liang.

 
 Efficientbert: Progressively searching multilayer perceptron via warm-up knowledge distillation.

 
 In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2021 , pp. 1424–1437, 2021.

 
 
 Dong et al. (2022) 
 
Peijie Dong, Xin Niu, Lujun Li, Linzhen Xie, Wenbin Zou, Tian Ye, Zimian Wei, and Hengyue Pan.

 
 Prior-guided one-shot neural architecture search.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.13329 , 2022.

 
 
 Dong et al. (2023a) 
 
Peijie Dong, Lujun Li, and Zimian Wei.

 
 Diswot: Student architecture search for distillation without training.

 
 In CVPR , 2023a.

 
 
 Dong et al. (2023b) 
 
Peijie Dong, Lujun Li, Zimian Wei, Xin Niu, Zhiliang Tian, and Hengyue Pan.

 
 Emq: Evolving training-free proxies for automated mixed precision quantization.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.10554 , 2023b.

 
 
 Dong et al. (2024a) 
 
Peijie Dong, Lujun Li, Zhenheng Tang, Xiang Liu, Xinglin Pan, Qiang Wang, and Xiaowen Chu.

 
 Pruner-zero: Evolving symbolic pruning metric from scratch for large language models.

 
 In ICML , 2024a.

 
 
 Dong et al. (2024b) 
 
Peijie Dong, Lujun Li, Yuedong Zhong, Dayou Du, Ruibo Fan, Yuhan Chen, Zhenheng Tang, Qiang Wang, Wei Xue, Yike Guo, et al.

 
 Stbllm: Breaking the 1-bit barrier with structured binary llms.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.01803 , 2024b.

 
 
 Dubey et al. (2024) 
 
Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, et al.

 
 The llama 3 herd of models.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783 , 2024.

 
 
 Gao et al. (2022) 
 
Jiahui Gao, Hang Xu, Han Shi, Xiaozhe Ren, LH Philip, Xiaodan Liang, Xin Jiang, and Zhenguo Li.

 
 Autobert-zero: Evolving bert backbone from scratch.

 
 In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 36, pp. 10663–10671, 2022.

 
 
 Gokaslan et al. (2019) 
 
Aaron Gokaslan, Vanya Cohen, Ellie Pavlick, and Stefanie Tellex.

 
 Openwebtext corpus, 2019.

 
 
 Gu et al. (2024) 
 
Yuxian Gu, Li Dong, Furu Wei, and Minlie Huang.

 
 Minillm: Knowledge distillation of large language models.

 
 In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024.

 
 
 Guo et al. (2020) 
 
Zichao Guo, Xiangyu Zhang, Haoyuan Mu, Wen Heng, Zechun Liu, Yichen Wei, and Jian Sun.

 
 Single path one-shot neural architecture search with uniform sampling.

 
 In Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part XVI 16 , pp. 544–560. Springer, 2020.

 
 
 Honovich et al. (2022) 
 
Or Honovich, Thomas Scialom, Omer Levy, and Timo Schick.

 
 Unnatural instructions: Tuning language models with (almost) no human labor.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.09689 , 2022.

 
 
 Hu et al. (2021) 
 
Yiming Hu, Xingang Wang, Lujun Li, and Qingyi Gu.

 
 Improving one-shot nas with shrinking-and-expanding supernet.

 
 Pattern Recognition , 2021.

 
 
 Jiang et al. (2020) 
 
Zi-Hang Jiang, Weihao Yu, Daquan Zhou, Yunpeng Chen, Jiashi Feng, and Shuicheng Yan.

 
 Convbert: Improving bert with span-based dynamic convolution.

 
 Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 33:12837–12848, 2020.

 
 
 Jiao et al. (2020) 
 
Xiaoqi Jiao, Yichun Yin, Lifeng Shang, Xin Jiang, Xiao Chen, Linlin Li, Fang Wang, and Qun Liu.

 
 Tinybert: Distilling bert for natural language understanding.

 
 In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020 , pp. 4163–4174, 2020.

 
 
 Klyuchnikov et al. (2022) 
 
Nikita Klyuchnikov, Ilya Trofimov, Ekaterina Artemova, Mikhail Salnikov, Maxim Fedorov, Alexander Filippov, and Evgeny Burnaev.

 
 Nas-bench-nlp: neural architecture search benchmark for natural language processing.

 
 IEEE Access , 10:45736–45747, 2022.

 
 
 Li et al. (2023a) 
 
Guihong Li, Yuedong Yang, Kartikeya Bhardwaj, and Radu Marculescu.

 
 Zico: Zero-shot nas via inverse coefficient of variation on gradients.

 
 In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations , 2023a.

 
 
 Li (2022) 
 
Lujun Li.

 
 Self-regulated feature learning via teacher-free feature distillation.

 
 In ECCV 2022 , 2022.

 
 
 Li & Jin (2022) 
 
Lujun Li and Zhe Jin.

 
 Shadow knowledge distillation: Bridging offline and online knowledge transfer.

 
 Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 2022.

 
 
 Li et al. (2023b) 
 
Lujun Li, Peijie Dong, Anggeng Li, Zimian Wei, and Yang Ya.

 
 Kd-zero: Evolving knowledge distiller for any teacher-student pairs.

 
 In Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2023b.

 
 
 Li et al. (2023c) 
 
Lujun Li, Peijie Dong, Zimian Wei, and Ya Yang.

 
 Automated knowledge distillation via monte carlo tree search.

 
 In ICCV , 2023c.

 
 
 Li et al. (2024a) 
 
Lujun Li, Yufan Bao, Peijie Dong, Chuanguang Yang, Anggeng Li, Wenhan Luo, Qifeng Liu, Wei Xue, and Yike Guo.

 
 Detkds: Knowledge distillation search for object detectors.

 
 In ICML , 2024a.

 
 
 Li et al. (2024b) 
 
Lujun Li, Peijie, Zhenheng Tang, Xiang Liu, Qiang Wang, Wenhan Luo, Wei Xue, Qifeng Liu, Xiaowen Chu, and Yike Guo.

 
 Discovering sparsity allocation for layer-wise pruning of large language models.

 
 In NeuIPS , 2024b.

 
 
 Li et al. (2024c) 
 
Lujun Li, Haosen Sun, Shiwen Li, Peijie Dong, Wenhan Luo, Wei Xue, Qifeng Liu, and Yike Guo.

 
 Auto-gas: Automated proxy discovery for training-free generative architecture search.

 
 ECCV, 2024c.

 
 
 Li et al. (2024d) 
 
Lujun Li, Zimian Wei, Peijie Dong, Wenhan Luo, Wei Xue, Qifeng Liu, and Yike Guo.

 
 Attnzero: efficient attention discovery for vision transformers.

 
 In ECCV , 2024d.

 
 
 Li et al. (2024e) 
 
Wei Li, Lujun Li, Mark Lee, and Shengjie Sun.

 
 Als: Adaptive layer sparsity for large language models via activation correlation assessment.

 
 In NeuIPS , 2024e.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2018) 
 
Hanxiao Liu, Karen Simonyan, and Yiming Yang.

 
 Darts: Differentiable architecture search.

 
 In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2018.

 
 
 Liu et al. (2023) 
 
Xiaolong Liu, Lujun Li, Chao Li, and Anbang Yao.

 
 Norm: Knowledge distillation via n-to-one representation matching.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13803 , 2023.

 
 
 Mellor et al. (2021a) 
 
Joe Mellor, Jack Turner, Amos Storkey, and Elliot J Crowley.

 
 Neural architecture search without training.

 
 In International Conference on Machine Learning , pp. 7588–7598. PMLR, 2021a.

 
 
 Mellor et al. (2021b) 
 
Joseph Mellor, Jack Turner, Amos Storkey, and Elliot J. Crowley.

 
 Neural architecture search without training, 2021b.

 
 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=g4E6SAAvACo .

 
 
 Michel et al. (2019) 
 
Paul Michel, Omer Levy, and Graham Neubig.

 
 Are sixteen heads really better than one?, 2019.

 
 
 OpenAI (2023) 
 
R OpenAI.

 
 Gpt-4 technical report.

 
 arXiv , pp. 2303–08774, 2023.

 
 
 Pan et al. (2023) 
 
Xuran Pan, Xuan Jin, Yuan He, Shiji Song, Gao Huang, et al.

 
 Budgeted training for vision transformer.

 
 In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations , 2023.

 
 
 Rajpurkar et al. (2016) 
 
Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and Percy Liang.

 
 Squad: 100,000+ questions for machine comprehension of text.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.05250 , 2016.

 
 
 Real et al. (2019) 
 
Esteban Real, Alok Aggarwal, Yanping Huang, and Quoc V Le.

 
 Regularized evolution for image classifier architecture search.

 
 In Proceedings of the aaai conference on artificial intelligence , volume 33, pp. 4780–4789, 2019.

 
 
 Sanh et al. (2020) 
 
Victor Sanh, Lysandre Debut, Julien Chaumond, and Thomas Wolf.

 
 Distilbert, a distilled version of bert: smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.01108 , 2020.

 
 
 Serianni & Kalita (2023) 
 
Aaron Serianni and Jugal Kalita.

 
 Training-free neural architecture search for RNNs and transformers.

 
 In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 2522–2540, Toronto, Canada, July 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.142 .

 
 URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.142 .

 
 
 Soboleva et al. (2023) 
 
Daria Soboleva, Faisal Al-Khateeb, Robert Myers, Jacob R Steeves, Joel Hestness, and Nolan Dey.

 
 SlimPajama: A 627B token cleaned and deduplicated version of RedPajama.

 
 https://www.cerebras.net/blog/slimpajama-a-627b-token-cleaned-and-deduplicated-version-of-redpajama , 2023.

 
 URL https://huggingface.co/datasets/cerebras/SlimPajama-627B .

 
 
 Strubell et al. (2019) 
 
Emma Strubell, Ananya Ganesh, and Andrew Mccallum.

 
 Energy and policy considerations for deep learning in nlp.

 
 In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pp. 3645–3650, 2019.

 
 
 Sun et al. (2024) 
 
Haosen Sun, Lujun Li, Peijie Dong, Zimian Wei, and Shitong Shao.

 
 Auto-das: Automated proxy discovery for training-free distillation-aware architecture search.

 
 ECCV, 2024.

 
 
 Sun et al. (2019) 
 
Yanan Sun, Bing Xue, Mengjie Zhang, and Gary G Yen.

 
 Evolving deep convolutional neural networks for image classification.

 
 IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation , 24(2):394–407, 2019.

 
 
 Sun et al. (2020) 
 
Zhiqing Sun, Hongkun Yu, Xiaodan Song, Renjie Liu, Yiming Yang, and Denny Zhou.

 
 Mobilebert: a compact task-agnostic bert for resource-limited devices.

 
 In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pp. 2158–2170, 2020.

 
 
 Tanaka et al. (2020) 
 
Hidenori Tanaka, Daniel Kunin, Daniel L. K. Yamins, and Surya Ganguli.

 
 Pruning neural networks without any data by iteratively conserving synaptic flow, 2020.

 
 
 Tuli et al. (2023) 
 
Shikhar Tuli, Bhishma Dedhia, Shreshth Tuli, and Niraj K Jha.

 
 Flexibert: Are current transformer architectures too homogeneous and rigid?

 
 Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research , 77:39–70, 2023.

 
 
 Turc et al. (2019) 
 
Iulia Turc, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova.

 
 Well-read students learn better: On the importance of pre-training compact models.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.08962 , 2019.

 
 
 Voita et al. (2019) 
 
Elena Voita, David Talbot, Fedor Moiseev, Rico Sennrich, and Ivan Titov.

 
 Analyzing multi-head self-attention: Specialized heads do the heavy lifting, the rest can be pruned.

 
 In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pp. 5797–5808, 2019.

 
 
 Wang et al. (2018) 
 
Alex Wang, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix Hill, Omer Levy, and Samuel Bowman.

 
 GLUE: A multi-task benchmark and analysis platform for natural language understanding.

 
 In Proceedings of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop BlackboxNLP: Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP , pp. 353–355, Brussels, Belgium, November 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 
 doi: 10.18653/v1/W18-5446 .

 
 URL https://aclanthology.org/W18-5446 .

 
 
 Wang et al. (2020) 
 
Wenhui Wang, Furu Wei, Li Dong, Hangbo Bao, Nan Yang, and Ming Zhou.

 
 Minilm: Deep self-attention distillation for task-agnostic compression of pre-trained transformers.

 
 Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 33:5776–5788, 2020.

 
 
 Wang et al. (2022a) 
 
Yizhong Wang, Yeganeh Kordi, Swaroop Mishra, Alisa Liu, Noah A Smith, Daniel Khashabi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi.

 
 Self-instruct: Aligning language model with self generated instructions.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.10560 , 2022a.

 
 
 Wang et al. (2022b) 
 
Yizhong Wang, Swaroop Mishra, Pegah Alipoormolabashi, Yeganeh Kordi, Amirreza Mirzaei, Anjana Arunkumar, Arjun Ashok, Arut Selvan Dhanasekaran, Atharva Naik, David Stap, et al.

 
 Benchmarking generalization via in-context instructions on 1,600+ language tasks.

 
 arXiv e-prints , pp. arXiv–2204, 2022b.

 
 
 Wei et al. (2024) 
 
Zimian Wei, Lujun Li, Peijie Dong, , Anggeng Li, Menglong Lu, Hengyue Pan, and Dongsheng Li.

 
 Auto-prox: Training-free vision transformer architecture search via automatic proxy discovery.

 
 AAAI , 2024.

 
 
 Wu et al. (2019) 
 
Zhanghao Wu, Zhijian Liu, Ji Lin, Yujun Lin, and Song Han.

 
 Lite transformer with long-short range attention.

 
 In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2019.

 
 
 Xu et al. (2021) 
 
Jin Xu, Xu Tan, Renqian Luo, Kaitao Song, Jian Li, Tao Qin, and Tie-Yan Liu.

 
 Nas-bert: task-agnostic and adaptive-size bert compression with neural architecture search.

 
 In Proceedings of the 27th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining , pp. 1933–1943, 2021.

 
 
 Zhang et al. (2022) 
 
Susan Zhang, Stephen Roller, Naman Goyal, Mikel Artetxe, Moya Chen, Shuohui Chen, Christopher Dewan, Mona Diab, Xian Li, Xi Victoria Lin, et al.

 
 Opt: Open pre-trained transformer language models.

 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.01068 , 2022.

 
 
 Zhou et al. (2022) 
 
Qinqin Zhou, Kekai Sheng, Xiawu Zheng, Ke Li, Xing Sun, Yonghong Tian, Jie Chen, and Rongrong Ji.

 
 Training-free transformer architecture search.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pp. 10894–10903, 2022.

 
 
 Zhu et al. (2015) 
 
Yukun Zhu, Ryan Kiros, Rich Zemel, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Raquel Urtasun, Antonio Torralba, and Sanja Fidler.

 
 Aligning books and movies: Towards story-like visual explanations by watching movies and reading books.

 
 In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision , pp. 19–27, 2015.

 
 
 Zoph & Le (2016) 
 
Barret Zoph and Quoc Le.

 
 Neural architecture search with reinforcement learning.

 
 In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2016.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A Why BERT and MobileBERT? 

 
 As shown in Table 6 , we have attempted to train a model by composing 12 blocks of the same type, with a dimension of 528 for FFN. The results indicate that BERT and MobileBERT blocks outperform other blocks in terms of the unit parameter performance. Therefore, we have included these two fundamental blocks in our search space. In fact, if we construct a supernet as described in Section H.3 , the optimal network structure selected by the genetic algorithm will also only choose BERT and MobileBERT blocks, without considering any other types of blocks. 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix B Training
Details of the FlexiBERT Search Space 

 
 
 All transformer architectures within the search space were trained on TPUv2s with 8 cores and 64 GB of memory using Google Colaboratory. The entire process of pretraining and finetuning the benchmark took approximately 25 TPU days. For the evaluation of training-free metrics, 2.8 GHz Intel Cascade Lake processors with either 16 or 32 cores and 32 GB of memory were employed. 
 
 
 In terms of hyperparameter settings, except for setting the training steps to 100,000 during the pre-training phase, everything else is the same as training ELECTRA-Small. Specifically, during the pre-training phase, the generator size multiplier is set to 1/4, the mask percentage is set to 15%, the warmup step is 10,000, the learning rate is 5e-4, and the batch_size is 128. During the fine-tuning phase, the learning rate is 3e-4, the layerwise decay is 0.8, the warmup fraction is 0.1, the attention dropout is 0.1, and the batch_size is 32. For the RTE and STS tasks, 10 epochs are trained, while for other tasks, 3 epochs are trained. Both during pre-training and fine-tuning phases, the learning rate decay is linear, the vocabulary size is 30522, the dropout is 0.1, the weight decay value is 0.01, the value for the Adam optimizer is 1e-6, value is 0.9, and value is 0.999. 
 
 
 
 Appendix C Ablations of Ranking Evaluation 

 
 
 
 To examine the stability of zero-shot metrics, we conducted a series of studies to investigate the effects of random architecture initialization (Figure 5 ) and varying batch inputs (Figure 6 ) on the evaluation of zero-shot metrics within the FlexiBERT search space. The range of fluctuations observed in various zero-shot metrics in a neural network model demonstrates that, while the number of parameters remains unaffected, other zero-shot metrics exhibit varying degrees of fluctuation depending on the initialization of parameters and batch inputs. The figure indicates that PCA alone, serving as a proxy metric, shows good stability, and W-PCA exhibits the same level of stability as PCA due to multiplication by a constant parameter that does not alter the magnitude of the original proxy metric’s fluctuation. When compared to other zero-shot metrics, PCA and W-PCA exhibit slightly better stability than Activation Distance ( Mellor et al. 2021a ) and Head Softmax Confidence ( Serianni & Kalita 2023 ) , and significantly better stability than Synaptic Diversity ( Zhou et al. 2022 ) , Synaptic Saliency ( Abdelfattah et al. 2020 ) , and Head Importance ( Serianni & Kalita 2023 ) . These findings demonstrate that our proposed method not only achieves superior ranking evaluation but also demonstrates improved stability. 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix D Robustness with Different ’s 

 
 
 In our NLU task experiments, when training networks composed of 12 identical BERT or MobileBERT blocks, we observed an extremely uneven distribution of principal components. Specifically, the largest eigenvalues, when sorted, are predominantly concentrated at the beginning, while the remaining eigenvalues are close to zero. The dimensions required for each layer to achieve different values when training these models are shown in Table 8 .
From the table, it is evident that the BERT blocks exhibit a more uneven distribution compared to the MobileBERT blocks, as only 54.2% of the dimensions are needed to reach a 0.999 principal component contribution rate. However, setting to 0.999 would result in a loss of distinction for MobileBERT blocks, as they would only have integer values between 125 and 132. Since our search space includes networks composed of both BERT and MobileBERT blocks, we compromised by setting to 0.99. 
 
 
 
 For the ranking correlation experiments, each block has more combination possibilities. We adjusted different values and obtained the following ranking correlations in Table 9 . As shown in the table, both V-PCA and W-PCA maintain high rank correlation regardless of the value, demonstrating the robustness of the
 variable in the rank correlation experiments. Additionally, W-PCA consistently outperforms V-PCA in both Kendall’s and Spearman’s correlations across different values, further indicating that incorporating the number of parameters as a factor in the proxy enhances the stability of the rank correlation results. 
 
 
 
 Appendix E Implementation Details of Genetic Algorithm 

 
 The genetic algorithm is a widely used classic algorithm for solving combinatorial optimization problems. In Figure 7 , we illustrate the flowchart of the genetic algorithm. Early NAS algorithms ( Real et al. 2019 ; Sun et al. 2019 ) often encoded each individual neural network and then trained them from scratch. To efficiently identify the best combination of lightweight BERT blocks, we encoded and solved the combination using a genetic algorithm. 
 
 
 
 E.1 Encode 

 
 When there are layers in the combination, we use an integer array of length to encode the selection method for each layer. Each integer in the array represents the type of block chosen for that layer. Taking the 12-layer model of W-PCA-Small as an example, if the number at a given position is less than or equal to 5, it indicates the selection of a BERT-type block; otherwise, a MobileBERT-type block is chosen. Each integer represents the dimension of the hidden dimension. Let be the integer at the current layer position, then the hidden dimension is calculated as . 
 
 
 
 E.2 Crossover 

 
 
 We employ the single-point crossover method as outlined in Algorithm 1 to produce offspring encodings. In each generation, parents are randomly chosen from the top 10 individuals, and offspring are generated through crossover until the desired number of offspring is obtained. 
 
 
 
 E.3 Mutation 

 
 We set the mutation probability to 0.1. When the current position mutation is triggered, the current position will randomly mutate into another integer within the selection range. 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix F KD Loss Function 

 
 The distillation loss function of EfficientBERT ( Dong et al. 2021 ) forms the basis of our approach. For the student model, we define 
as the loss for the multi-head attention (MHA) output and as the loss for the feed-forward network (FFN) output in the
 -th layer. The embedding loss, represented by , is also included. These losses are calculated using the mean squared error (MSE) as follows: 
 
 
 
 Here, and represent the outputs of the MHA and FFN layers, respectively, in the -th layer of the student model. Similarly, and represent the outputs of the MHA and FFN layers, respectively, in the
 -th layer of the teacher model corresponding to the -th layer of the student model. 
 
 
 For our fixed teacher model, BERT-base, which comprises 12 layers, a one-to-one sequential correspondence exists between the layers of the student and teacher models when both models have 12 layers. However, in the case of a student model with only 6 layers, the correspondence remains one-to-one, but with a 2-layer interval. This implies that the first layer of the student model corresponds to the second layer of the teacher model, and so forth, until the sixth layer of the student model aligns with the twelfth layer of the teacher model. 
 
 
 The trainable matrices , , and 
are used to adjust the dimensionality of the student and teacher models. Additionally, we define as the prediction loss, which is calculated using soft cross-entropy (CE): 
 
 
 
 Here, represents the predicted logit vector. 
 
 
 The total loss is a combination of the above terms: 
 
 
 
 
 
 The coefficient is used to control the contribution of the predicted loss. It is set at 0 during the pretraining phase and 1 during the fine-tuning phase. 
 
 
 
 Appendix G Visualization of Architectures 

 
 Figure 8 illustrates the schematic diagram of the network structure. It is observed that all models preferentially choose MobileBERT as the candidate block, suggesting that MobileBERT is better suited for lightweight language models in comparison to BERT-base. Furthermore, with the exception of the searched model that solely relies on parameter count as the search evaluation metric, the candidate blocks of MobileBERT are predominantly located in the higher layers, indicating that this architecture is more adept at analyzing high-level semantic information. 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix H More Ablations on Accuracy Comparision 

 
 H.1 Different Initializations 

 
 
 To validate the stability of each component of W-PCA, we conducted multiple runs using #Params, V-PCA, and W-PCA as proxies. The results are presented in Table 10 . As shown in the table, under different weight initializations, the structures identified using #Params as a proxy remain identical across runs since #Params does not change. However, when V-PCA and W-PCA are used as proxies, the genetic algorithm identifies different structures, resulting in varying GLUE scores after training. On average, W-PCA demonstrates a clear advantage over V-PCA, and both W-PCA and V-PCA outperform #Params. This further validates the effectiveness of the proposed proxy. 
 
 
 
 H.2 Comparison of Larger-sized Models 

 
 
 In the main body of the paper, we primarily focus on lightweight language models with parameter sizes of approximately 15M and 10M. To investigate the applicability of W-PCA on larger language models in search processes, we carried out experiments by utilizing a larger model that expanded the size of the search space as described in Section 6.2.1 . Specifically, we doubled the hidden_size and the hidden_dimension of candidate dimensions. Moreover, we increased the parameter limit in the genetic algorithm to 67M, resulting in the creation of our W-PCA-Large model. Our model, presented in Table 11 , outperforms TinyBERT-6 ( Jiao et al. 2020 ) and EfficientBERT ( Dong et al. 2021 ) models of similar scale in terms of average GLUE score, despite having a slightly lower parameter count. This indicates that W-PCA also exhibits strong adaptability in larger search spaces. 
 
 
 
 H.3 Comparison with One-shot NAS 

 
 
 
 In Section 4 , we refer to the composition method of the supernet in the one-shot NAS method SPOS ( Guo et al. 2020 ) , and construct the combination method of the lightweight BERT model in our zero-shot NAS search space. In order to compare its performance with the one-shot NAS, we now build a real supernet, as shown in Figure 4 , with a total of layers and candidate blocks in each layer.
Before searching for the optimal structure using a genetic algorithm, we performed one round of pre-training and fine-tuning based on the SPOS method. During each batch, a random path is selected from the
 combinations for forward propagation and backward parameter updates.
After completing the pre-training and fine-tuning process, we proceeded with the workflow described in the zero-shot NAS experiment. This involved searching for the optimal network architecture on the supernet using a genetic algorithm, and then re-pretraining and fine-tuning this optimal architecture for downstream tasks. 
 
 
 Implementation Details. 
We first pretrain the supernet on English Wikipedia ( Devlin et al. 2019 ) and BooksCorpus ( Zhu et al. 2015 ) , then utilize 90% of the training set from each GLUE task for fine-tuning. We reserve the remaining 10% of the MNLI task to evaluate the accuracy of architectures in the search. During the pre-training and fine-tuning process, the number of epochs is set to 10, and the batch_size is set to 256 for both. The learning rate for pre-training is set to 1e-4, and the learning rate for fine-tuning is set to 4e-4. The optimizer, weight decay, and learning rate adjustment strategy are the same as in the training section. The loss function used is still the MSE loss function described in Appendix F . 
 
 
 Results & Analysis. 
As displayed in Table 13 , despite extensive computational resources devoted to the one-shot NAS search, the performance enhancement for various-sized models of W-PCA is not significant. To further investigate the reasons behind this, we outline the steps of one-shot NAS and zero-shot NAS in Table 12 . Both approaches involve finding the optimal network structure through a search stage, followed by training this structure in the subsequent training stage. In the search stage of one-shot NAS, a supernet training is necessary, whereas zero-shot NAS only requires temporary construction of a neural network at each sampling step to compute the zero-shot proxy. Consequently, the memory overhead for zero-shot NAS is minimal. Contrasting with zero-shot NAS, one-shot NAS incurs additional time overhead due to pre-training the supernet on the corpus and performing global fine-tuning on downstream tasks. Additionally, one-shot NAS possesses extra pre-trained weights apart from the different searched network structures. After the network structure is searched by zero-shot NAS, no pre-training weights are used, and the weights are randomly initialized, resulting in relatively minor effects on accuracy. Therefore, zero-shot NAS remains the most cost-effective search solution. 
 
 
 
 H.4 Experiments on EfficientBERT Search Space 

 
 Previous zero-shot NAS studies have primarily assessed performance on NAS Benchmark datasets, using rank correlation to evaluate the effectiveness of these zero-shot proxies. To facilitate a comparison with other zero-shot proxies applied to Transformer models in text tasks, we designed the search space described in Section 4 and compared our method within this context. To further ensure robustness, we conducted additional comparisons using the EfficientBERT search space, with the results shown in Table 14 . The data demonstrate that our proposed zero-shot proxy maintains a significant advantage in accuracy across various search spaces. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix I Causal Language Modeling Task 

 
 To validate our performance more sufficiently, we further transfer our method to causal language modeling (CLM) task. 
 
 
 I.1 Setup 

 
 Searching. 
We use some 1B~3B parameter OPT   ( Zhang et al. 2022 ) and LLaMA3   ( Dubey et al. 2024 ) models as baseline models, keeping the number of layers unchanged while searching for the optimal combinations of MHA blocks and FFN dimensions in each layer of the models. For a fair comparison, we set the maximum parameter limit for the searched models to be the same as that of the baseline models. 
 
 
 Pretraining. We pretrain the models for causal language modeling (CLM) using a randomly selected 1% of texts from the SlimPajama dataset   ( Soboleva et al. 2023 ) . For this task, we train the models generated by each zero-shot proxy on 8 NVIDIA V100 GPUs, with a total batch size of 64 for 3 epochs. A cosine annealing schedule is applied to the learning rate, starting at . Optimization is performed using the AdamW optimizer with a weight decay of 0.1. To accommodate the differences in configurations, such as the tokenizer and training loss, between OPT and LLaMA3, we train two separate models for each proxy. 
 
 
 Instruction finetuning. To obtain models suitable for chat applications, we finetune each pretrained model using the instruction dataset databricks-dolly-15k   ( Conover et al. 2023 ) with the KD method MiniLLM   ( Gu et al. 2024 ) . Specifically, we use OPT-13B and LLaMA3.2-11B as the teacher model to supervise other models. The training data and strategies employed are consistent with those of MiniLLM. 
 
 
 
 Each model required approximately 20 GPU days for pretraining and around 28 GPU hours for finetuning in our experiments. 
 
 
 Quantitative evaluation. We perform a numerical evaluation on five instruction-following datasets: 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 DollyEval : This is a 500-sample test set that we extracted from the databricks-dolly-15k dataset. 
 
 • 
 
 SelfInst   ( Wang et al. 2022a ) : A user-oriented instruction-following set comprising 252 samples. 
 
 • 
 
 VicunaEval   ( Chiang et al. 2023 ) : The evaluation includes 80 challenging questions used in the Vicuna project. 
 
 • 
 
 S-NI : The test set of Super-NaturalInstructions   ( Wang et al. 2022b ) , which consists of 9,000 samples across 119 tasks. 
 
 • 
 
 UnNI : The core set of UnnaturalInstructions   ( Honovich et al. 2022 ) , which contains 60,000 samples. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I.2 Quantitative Results on Language Benchmarks 

 
 We evaluated the performance of the W-PCA model by comparing it with other models trained using MiniLLM. As shown in Table 15 ,
across various model sizes, W-PCA consistently identifies architectures that outperform the baseline in all evaluation metrics. Compared to other zero-shot NAS methods, W-PCA leads in 6 out of 8 metrics for the OPT-1.3B size, all metrics for the OPT-2.7B size, and 7 out of 8 metrics for the LLaMA3.2-3B size. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in transferring performance to CLM tasks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
