 
 
 
 Measuring the Reliability of Reinforcement Learning Algorithms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 
 

 
 Title: 
 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 
 
 

 
 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 
 

 
 
 
 Back to arXiv 
 
 
 
 
 Why HTML? 
 
 
 Report Issue 
 
 
 
 Back to Abstract 
 
 
 
 
 Download PDF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Abstract 
 1 Introduction 
 2 Reliability Metrics 
 
 2.1 Axes of variability 
 
 During training: Across Time (T) 
 During training: Across Runs (R) 
 After learning: Across rollouts of a fixed policy (F) 
 
 2.2 Measures of variability 
 
 Dispersion 
 Risk 
 
 2.3 Desiderata 
 2.4 Metric Definitions 
 
 Dispersion across Time (DT): IQR across Time 
 Short-term Risk across Time (SRT): CVaR on Differences 
 Long-term Risk across Time (LRT): CVaR on Drawdown 
 Dispersion across Runs (DR): IQR across Runs 
 Risk across Runs (RR): CVaR across Runs 
 Dispersion across Fixed-Policy Rollouts (DF): IQR across Rollouts 
 Risk across Fixed-Policy Rollouts (RF): CVaR across Rollouts 
 
 2.5 Invariance to frequency of evaluation 
 
 3 Recommendations for reporting metrics and parameters 
 
 Reporting parameters. 
 Collapsing across evaluation points. 
 Normalization by performance. 
 Ranking the algorithms. 
 Per-environment analysis. 
 
 4 Confidence Intervals and Statistical Significance Tests for Comparison 
 
 4.1 Confidence intervals 
 4.2 Significance Tests for Comparing algorithms 
 4.3 Reporting on statistical tests 
 
 5 Analysis of Reliability for Common Algorithms and Environments 
 
 5.1 Continuous control algorithms on OpenAI Gym 
 5.2 Discrete control: DQN variants on Atari 
 5.3 Parameters for reliability metrics, confidence intervals, and statistical tests 
 5.4 Median performance 
 5.5 Results 
 
 6 Conclusion 
 References 
 A Assumptions and Definitions 
 B Detrending by differencing 
 C Illustrations of Permutation Test Procedures 
 D Raw training curves for OpenAI MuJoCo tasks 
 E Hyperparameter settings 
 F Per-task metric results 
 
 
 
 
 
 License: CC BY 4.0
 
 
arXiv:1912.05663v2 [stat.ML] 12 Feb 2020 
 
 
 Measuring the Reliability of 
 Reinforcement Learning Algorithms 
 
 
 Stephanie C.Y. Chan
 thanks: Work done as part of the Google AI Residency 
 Email:  scychan@google.com 
 
    
 Samuel Fishman
 
 Email:  canny@google.com 
 
    
 John Canny
 
 Affiliation:  Google Research
 
 Email:  kbanoop@google.com 
 
    
 Anoop Korattikara
 
 Affiliation:  Google Research
 
 Affiliation:  Berkeley EECS
 
 Email:  sfishman@google.com 
 
 Email:  sguada@google.com 
 
    
 & Sergio Guadarrama
 
 Affiliation:  Google Research
 

 Abstract 
 
 Lack of reliability is a well-known issue for reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. This problem has gained increasing attention in recent years, and efforts to improve it have grown substantially. To aid RL researchers and production users with the evaluation and improvement of reliability, we propose a set of metrics that quantitatively measure different aspects of reliability. In this work, we focus on variability and risk, both during training and after learning (on a fixed policy). We designed these metrics to be general-purpose, and we also designed complementary statistical tests to enable rigorous comparisons on these metrics. In this paper, we first describe the desired properties of the metrics and their design, the aspects of reliability that they measure, and their applicability to different scenarios. We then describe the statistical tests and make additional practical recommendations for reporting results. The metrics and accompanying statistical tools have been made available as an open-source library. 
 1 
 
 
 
 https://github.com/google-research/rl-reliability-metrics We apply our metrics to a set of common RL algorithms and environments, compare them, and analyze the results. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 

 
 Reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms, especially Deep RL algorithms, tend to be highly variable in performance and considerably sensitive to a range of different factors, including implementation details, hyper-parameters, choice of environments, and even random seeds ( Henderson et al., 2017 ) . This variability hinders reproducible research, and can be costly or even dangerous for real-world applications. Furthermore, it impedes scientific progress in the field when practitioners cannot reliably evaluate or predict the performance of any particular algorithm, compare different algorithms, or even compare different implementations of the same algorithm. 
 
 
 Recently, Henderson et al. (2017) has performed a detailed analysis of reliability for several policy gradient algorithms, while Duan et al. (2016) has benchmarked average performance of different continuous-control algorithms. In other related work, Colas et al. (2018) have provided a detailed analysis on power analyses for mean performance in RL, and Colas et al. (2019) provide a comprehensive primer on statistical testing for mean and median performance in RL. 
 
 
 In this work, we aim to devise a set of metrics that measure reliability of RL algorithms. Our analysis distinguishes between several typical modes to evaluate RL performance: "evaluation during training", which is computed over the course of training, vs. "evaluation after learning", which is evaluated on a fixed policy after it has been trained. These metrics are also designed to measure different aspects of reliability, e.g. reproducibility (variability across training runs and variability across rollouts of a fixed policy) or stability (variability within training runs). Additionally, the metrics capture multiple aspects of variability – dispersion (the width of a distribution), and risk (the heaviness and extremity of the lower tail of a distribution). 
 
 
 Standardized measures of reliability can benefit the field of RL by allowing RL practitioners to compare algorithms in a rigorous and consistent way. This in turn allows the field to measure progress, and also informs the selection of algorithms for both research and production environments. By measuring various aspects of reliability, we can also identify particular strengths and weaknesses of algorithms, allowing users to pinpoint specific areas of improvement. 
 
 
 In this paper, in addition to describing these reliability metrics, we also present practical recommendations for statistical tests to compare metric results and how to report the results more generally. As examples, we apply these metrics to a set of algorithms and environments (discrete and continuous, off-policy and on-policy). We have released the code used in this paper as an open-source Python package to ease the adoption of these metrics and their complementary statistics. 
 
 
 
 
 2 Reliability Metrics 

 
 We target three different axes of variability, and two different measures of variability along each axis. We denote each of these by a letter, and each metric as a combination of an axis + a measure, e.g. "DR" for "Dispersion Across Runs". See Table 1 for a summary. Please see Appendix A for more detailed definitions of the terms used here. 
 
 
 2.1 Axes of variability 

 
 Our metrics target the following three axes of variability. The first two capture reliability "during training", while the last captures reliability of a fixed policy "after learning". 
 
 
 During training: Across Time (T) 

 
 In the setting of evaluation during training, one desirable property for an RL algorithm is to be stable "across time" within each training run. In general, smooth monotonic improvement is preferable to noisy fluctuations around a positive trend, or unpredictable swings in performance. 
 
 
 This type of stability is important for several reasons. During learning, especially when deployed for real applications, it can be costly or even dangerous for an algorithm to have unpredictable levels of performance. Even in cases where bouts of poor performance do not directly cause harm, e.g. if training in simulation, high instability implies that algorithms have to be check-pointed and evaluated more frequently in order to catch the peak performance of the algorithm, which can be expensive. Furthermore, while training, it can be a waste of computational resources to train an unstable algorithm that tends to forget previously learned behaviors. 
 
 
 
 During training: Across Runs (R) 

 
 During training, RL algorithms should have easily and consistently reproducible performances across multiple training runs. Depending on the components that we allow to vary across training runs, this variability can encapsulate the algorithm’s sensitivity to a variety of factors, such as: random seed and initialization of the optimization, random seed and initialization of the environment, implementation details, and hyper-parameter settings. Depending on the goals of the analysis, these factors can be held constant or allowed to vary, in order to disentangle the contribution of each factor to variability in training performance. High variability on any of these dimensions leads to unpredictable performance, and also requires a large search in order to find a model with good performance. 
 
 
 
 After learning: Across rollouts of a fixed policy (F) 

 
 When evaluating a fixed policy, a natural concern is the variability in performance across multiple rollouts of that fixed policy. Each rollout may be specified e.g. in terms of a number of actions, environment steps, or episodes. Generally, this metric measures sensitivity to both stochasticity from the environment and stochasticity from the training procedure (the optimization). Practitioners may sometimes wish to keep one or the other constant if it is important to disentangle the two factors (e.g. holding constant the random seed of the environment while allowing the random seed controlling optimization to vary across rollouts). 
 
 
 
 
 2.2 Measures of variability 

 
 For each axis of variability, we have two kinds of measures: dispersion and risk. 
 
 
 Dispersion 

 
 Dispersion is the width of the distribution. To measure dispersion, we use "robust statistics" such as the Inter-quartile range (IQR) (i.e. the difference between the 75th and 25th percentiles) and the Median absolute deviation from the median (MAD) , which are more robust statistics and don’t require assuming normality of the distributions. 
 2 
 
 
 
 Note that our aim here is to measure the variability of the distribution, rather than to characterize the uncertainty in estimating a statistical parameter of that distribution. Therefore, confidence intervals and other similar methods are not suitable for the aim of measuring dispersion. We prefer to use IQR over MAD, because it is more appropriate for asymmetric distributions ( Rousseeuw & Croux, 1993 ) . 
 
 
 
 Risk 

 
 In many cases, we are concerned about the worst-case scenarios. Therefore, we define risk as the heaviness and extent of the lower tail of the distribution. This is complementary to measures of dispersion like IQR, which cuts off the tails of the distribution.
To measure risk, we use the Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR) , also known as “expected shortfall". CVaR measures the expected loss in the worst-case scenarios, defined by some quantile . It is computed as the expected value in the left-most tail of a distribution ( Acerbi & Tasche, 2002 ) . We use the following definition for the CVaR of a random variable for a given quantile : 
 
 
 
 
 
 where and the (Value at Risk) is just the -quantile of the distribution of . Originally developed in finance, CVaR has also seen recent adoption in Safe RL as an additional component of the objective function by applying it to the cumulative returns within an episode, e.g. Bäuerle & Ott (2011) ; Chow & Ghavamzadeh (2014) ; Tamar et al. (2015) . In this work, we apply CVaR to the dimensions of reliability described in Section 2.1 . 
 
 
 
 
 2.3 Desiderata 

 
 In designing our metrics and statistical tests, we required that they fulfill the following criteria: 
 
 
 
 A minimal number of configuration parameters – to facilitate standardization as well as to minimize “researcher degrees of freedom" (where flexibility may allow users to tune settings to produce more favorable results, leading to an inflated rate of false positives) ( Simmons et al., 2011 ) . 
 
 
 
 Robust statistics, when possible. Robust statistics are less sensitive to outliers and have more reliable performance for a wider range of distributions. Robust statistics are especially important when applied to training performance, which tends to be highly non-Gaussian, making metrics such as variance and standard deviation inappropriate. For example, training performance is often bi-modal, with a concentration of points near the starting level and another concentration at the level of asymptotic performance. 
 
 
 
 Invariance to sampling frequency – results should not be biased by the frequency at which an algorithm was evaluated during training. See Section 2.5 for further discussion. 
 
 
 
 Enable meaningful statistical comparisons on the metrics, while making minimal assumptions about the distribution of the results. We thus designed statistical procedures that are non-parametric (Section 4 ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 1: Reliability metrics and median performance for continuous control RL algorithms (DDPG, TD3, SAC, REINFORCE, and PPO) tested on OpenAI Gym environments. Rank 1 always indicates "best" reliability, e.g. lowest IQR across runs. Error bars are 95% bootstrap confidence intervals (# bootstraps = 1,000). Significant pairwise differences in ranking between pairs of algorithms are indicated by black horizontal lines above the colored bars. ( with Benjamini-Yekutieli correction, permutation test with # permutations = 1,000). Note that the best algorithms by median performance are not always the best algorithms on reliability. 
 
 
 
 Figure 2: Reliability metrics and median performance for four DQN-variants (C51, DQN: Deep Q-network, IQ: Implicit Quantiles, and RBW: Rainbow) tested on 60 Atari games. Rank 1 always indicates "best" reliability, e.g. lowest IQR across runs. Significant pairwise differences in ranking between pairs of algorithms are indicated by black lines above the colored circles. ( with Benjamini-Yekutieli correction, permutation test with # permutations = 1,000). Note that the best algorithms by median performance are not always the best algorithms on reliability. Error bars are 95% bootstrap confidence intervals (# bootstraps = 1,000). 
 
 
 
 2.4 Metric Definitions 

 
 Dispersion across Time (DT): IQR across Time 

 
 To measure dispersion across time (DT), we wished to isolate higher-frequency variability, rather than capturing longer-term trends. We did not want our metrics to be influenced by positive trends of improvement during training, which are in fact desirable sources of variation in the training performance. Therefore, we apply detrending before computing dispersion metrics. For detrending, we used differencing (i.e. ). 
 3 
 
 
 
 Please see Appendix B for a more detailed discussion of different types of detrending, and the rationale for choosing differencing here. The final measure consisted of inter-quartile range (IQR) within a sliding window along the detrended training curve. 
 
 
 
 Short-term Risk across Time (SRT): CVaR on Differences 

 
 For this measure, we wish to measure the most extreme short-term drop over time. To do this, we apply CVaR to the changes in performance from one evaluation point to the next. I.e., in Eq. 1 , represents the differences from one evaluation time-point to the next. We first compute the time-point to time-point differences on each training run. These differences are normalized by the distance between time-points, to ensure invariance to evaluation frequency (see Section 2.5 ). Then, we obtain the distribution of these differences, and find the -quantile. Finally, we compute the expected value of the distribution below the -quantile. This gives us the worst-case expected drop in performance during training, from one point of evaluation to the next. 
 
 
 
 Long-term Risk across Time (LRT): CVaR on Drawdown 

 
 For this measure, we would also like to be able to capture whether an algorithm has the potential to lose a lot of performance relative to its peak, even if on a longer timescale, e.g. over an accumulation of small drops. For this measure, we apply CVaR to the Drawdown . The Drawdown at time is the drop in performance relative to the highest peak so far, and is another measure borrowed from economics ( Chekhlov et al., 2005 ) . I.e. . Like the SRT metric, the LRT can capture unusually large short-term drops in performance, but can also capture unusually large drops that occur over longer timescales. 
 
 
 
 Dispersion across Runs (DR): IQR across Runs 

 
 Unlike the rest of the metrics described here, the dispersion across training runs has previously been used to characterize performance (e.g. Duan et al. (2016) ; Islam et al. (2017) ; Bellemare et al. (2017) ; Fortunato et al. (2017) ; Nagarajan et al. (2018) ). This is usually measured by taking the variance or standard deviation across training runs at a set of evaluation points.
We build on the existing practice by recommending first performing low-pass filtering of the training data, to filter out high-frequency variability within runs (this is instead measured using Dispersion across Time, DT). We also replace variance or standard deviation with robust statistics like IQR. 
 
 
 
 Risk across Runs (RR): CVaR across Runs 

 
 In order to measure Risk across Runs (RR), we apply CVaR to the final performance of all the training runs. This gives a measure of the expected performance of the worst runs. 
 
 
 
 Dispersion across Fixed-Policy Rollouts (DF): IQR across Rollouts 

 
 When evaluating a fixed policy, we are interested in variability in performance when the same policy is rolled out multiple times. To compute this metric, we simply compute the IQR on the performance of the rollouts. 
 
 
 
 Risk across Fixed-Policy Rollouts (RF): CVaR across Rollouts 

 
 This metric is similar to DF, except that we apply CVaR on the rollout performances. 
 
 
 
 
 2.5 Invariance to frequency of evaluation 

 
 Different experiments and different tasks may produce evaluations at different frequencies during training. Therefore, the reliability metrics should be unbiased by the choice of evaluation frequency. As long as there are no cyclical patterns in performance, the frequency of evaluation will not bias any of the metrics except Long-Term Risk across Time (LRT). For all other metrics, changes in the frequency of evaluation will simply lead to more or less noisy estimates of these metrics. For LRT, comparisons should only be made if the frequency of evaluation is held constant across experiments. 
 
 
 
 
 3 Recommendations for reporting metrics and parameters 

 
 Whether evaluating an algorithm for practical use or for research, we recommend evaluating all of the reliability metrics described above. Each metric measures a different aspect of reliability, and can help pinpoint specific strengths and weaknesses of the algorithm. Evaluating the metrics is easy with the open-source Python package that we have released. 
 
 
 Reporting parameters. 

 
 Even given our purposeful efforts to minimize the number of parameters in the reliability metrics, a few remain to be specified by the user that can affect the results, namely: window size (for Dispersion across Time), frequency threshold for low-pass and high-pass filtering (Dispersion across Time, Dispersion across Runs), evaluation frequency (only for Long-term Risk across Time), and length of training runs. Therefore, when reporting these metrics, these parameters need to be clearly specified, and must also be held constant across experiments for meaningful comparisons. The same is true for any other parameters that affect evaluation, e.g., the number of roll-outs per evaluation, the parameters of the environment, whether on-line or off-line evaluation is used, and the random seeds chosen. 
 
 
 
 Collapsing across evaluation points. 

 
 Some of the in-training reliability metrics (Dispersion across Runs, Risk across Runs, and Dispersion across Time) need to be evaluated at multiple evaluation points along the training runs. If it is useful to obtain a small number of values to summarize each metric, we recommend dividing the training run into "time frames" (e.g. beginning, middle, and end), and collapsing across all evaluation points within each time frame. 
 
 
 
 Normalization by performance. 

 
 Different algorithms can have vastly different ranges of performance even on the same task, and variability in performance tends to scale with actual performance. Thus, we normalize our metrics in post-processing by a measure of the range of performance for each algorithm. For "during training" reliability, we recommend normalizing by the median range of performance, which we define as the , where is the 95th percentile and is the starting performance. For "after learning" reliability, the range of performance may not be available, in which case we use the median performance directly. 
 
 
 
 Ranking the algorithms. 

 
 Because different environments have different ranges and distributions of reward, we must be careful when aggregating across environments or comparing between environments. Thus, if the analysis involves more than one environment, the per-environment median results for the algorithms are first converted to rankings, by ranking all algorithms within each task. To summarize the performance of a single algorithm across multiple tasks, we compute the mean ranking across tasks. 
 
 
 
 Per-environment analysis. 

 
 The same algorithm can have different patterns of reliability for different environments. Therefore, we recommend inspecting reliability metrics on a per-environment basis, as well as aggregating across environments as described above. 
 
 
 
 
 4 Confidence Intervals and Statistical Significance Tests for Comparison 

 
 4.1 Confidence intervals 

 
 We assume that the metric values have been converted to mean rankings, as explained in Section 3 . To obtain confidence intervals on the mean rankings for each algorithm, we apply bootstrap sampling on the runs, by resampling runs with replacement ( Efron & Tibshirani, 1986 ) . 
 
 
 For metrics that are evaluated per-run (e.g. Dispersion across Time), we can resample the metric values directly, and then recompute the mean rankings on each resampling to obtain a distribution over the rankings; this allow us to compute confidence intervals. For metrics that are evaluated across-runs, we need to resample the runs themselves, then evaluate the metrics on each resampling, before recomputing the mean rankings to obtain a distribution on the mean rankings. 
 
 
 
 4.2 Significance Tests for Comparing algorithms 

 
 Commonly, we would like to compare algorithms evaluated on a fixed set of environments. To determine whether any two algorithms have statistically significant differences in their metric rankings, we perform an exact permutation test on each pair of algorithms. Such tests allow us to compute a p-value for the null hypothesis (probability that the methods are in fact indistinguishable on the reliability metric). 
 
 
 We designed our permutation tests based on the null hypothesis that runs are exchangeable across the two algorithms being compared. In brief, let and be sets of performance measurements for algorithms and . Let be a reliability metric, e.g. the inter-quartile range across runs, computed on a set of measurements . is the mean ranking across tasks on , compared to the other algorithms being considered. We compute test statistic 
 
 Next we compute the distribution for under the null hypothesis that the methods are equivalent, i.e. that performance measurements should have the same distribution for and . We do this by computing random partitions of , and computing the test statistic on each partition. This yields a distribution for (for sufficiently many samples), and the p-value can be computed from the percentile value of in this distribution. As with the confidence intervals, a different procedure is required for per-run vs across-run metrics. Please see Appendix C for diagrams illustrating the permutation test procedures. 
 
 
 When performing pairwise comparisons between algorithms, it is critical to include corrections for multiple comparisons. This is because the probability of incorrect inferences increases with a greater number of simultaneous comparisons. We recommend using the Benjamini-Yekutieli method, which controls the false discovery rate (FDR), i.e., the proportion of rejected null hypotheses that are false. 
 4 
 
 
 
 For situations in which a user wishes instead to control the family-wise error rate (FWER; the probability of incorrectly rejecting at least one true null hypothesis), we recommend using the Holm-Bonferroni method. 
 
 
 
 4.3 Reporting on statistical tests 

 
 It is important to report the details of any statistical tests performed, e.g. which test was used, the significance threshold, and the type of multiple-comparisons correction used. 
 
 
 
 
 5 Analysis of Reliability for Common Algorithms and Environments 

 
 In this section, we provide examples of applying the reliability metrics to a number of RL algorithms and environments, following the recommendations described above. 
 
 
 5.1 Continuous control algorithms on OpenAI Gym 

 
 We applied the reliability metrics to algorithms tested on seven continuous control environments from the Open-AI Gym ( Greg Brockman et al., 2016 ) run on the MuJoCo physics simulator ( Todorov et al., 2012 ) . We tested REINFORCE ( Sutton et al., 2000 ) , DDPG ( Lillicrap et al., 2015 ) , PPO ( Schulman et al., 2017 ) , TD3 ( Fujimoto et al., 2018 ) , and SAC ( Haarnoja et al., 2018 ) on the following Gym environments: Ant-v2, HalfCheetah-v2,
Humanoid-v2, Reacher-v2, Swimmer-v2, and Walker2d-v2. We used the implementations of DDPG, TD3, and SAC from the TF-Agents library ( Guadarrama et al., 2018 ) . Each algorithm was run on each environment for 30 independent training runs. 
 
 
 We used a black-box optimizer ( Golovin et al., 2017 ) to tune selected hyperparameters on a per-task basis, optimizing for final performance.
The remaining hyperparameters were defined as stated in the corresponding original papers.
See Appendix E for details of the hyperparameter search space and the final set of hyperparameters.
During training, we evaluated the policies at a frequency of 1000 training steps. Each algorithm was run for a total of two million environment steps. For the “online” evaluations we used the generated training curves, averaging returns over recent training episodes collected using the exploration policy as it evolves. The raw training curves are shown in Appendix D . For evaluations after learning on a fixed policy, we took the last checkpoint from each training run as the fixed policy for evaluation. Each of these policies was then evaluated for 30 roll-outs, where each roll-out was defined as 1000 environment steps. 
 
 
 
 5.2 Discrete control: DQN variants on Atari 

 
 We also applied the reliability metrics to the RL algorithms and training data released as part of the Dopamine package ( Castro et al., 2018 ) . The data comprise the training runs of four RL algorithms, each applied to 60 Atari games. The RL algorithms are: DQN ( Mnih et al., 2015 ) , Implicit Quantile (IQN) ( Dabney et al., 2018 ) , C51 ( Bellemare et al., 2017 ) , and a variant of Rainbow implementing the three most important components ( Hessel & Modayil, 2018 ) .
The algorithms were trained on each game for 5 training runs. Hyper-parameters follow the original papers, but were modified as necessary to follow Rainbow ( Hessel & Modayil, 2018 ) , to ensure apples-to-apples comparison. See Appendix E for the hyperparameters. 
 
 
 During training, the algorithms were evaluated in an “online” fashion every 1 million frames, averaging across the training episodes as recommended for evaluations on the ALE ( Machado et al., 2018 ) . Each training run consisted of approximately 200 million Atari frames (rounding to the nearest episode boundary every 1 million frames). 
 5 
 
 
 
 The raw training curves can be viewed at https://google.github.io/dopamine/baselines/plots.html For evaluations after learning on a fixed policy (“after learning”), we took the last checkpoint from each training run as the fixed policies for evaluation. We then evaluated each of these policies for 125,000 environment steps. 
 
 
 
 5.3 Parameters for reliability metrics, confidence intervals, and statistical tests 

 
 For the MuJoCo environments, we applied a sliding window of 100000 training steps for Dispersion across Time. For the Atari experiments, we used a sliding window size of 25 on top of the evaluations for the Dispersion across Time. For metrics with multiple evaluation points, we divided each training run into 3 time frames and averaged the metric rankings within each time frame. Because the results were extremely similar for all three time frames, we here report just for the final time frames. 
 
 
 Statistical tests for comparing algorithms were performed according to the recommendations in Section 4 . We used pairwise permutation tests using 10,000 permutations per test, with a significance threshold of 0.05 and Benjamini-Yekutieli multiple-comparisons correction. 
 
 
 
 5.4 Median performance 

 
 The median performance of an algorithm is not a reliability metric, but it is interesting to see side-by-side with the reliability metrics. For analyzing median performance for the DQN variants, we used the normalization scheme of ( Mnih et al., 2015 ) , where an algorithm’s performance is normalized against a lower baseline (e.g. the performance of a random policy) and an upper baseline (e.g. the performance of a human): . Median performance was not normalized for the continuous control algorithms. 
 
 
 
 5.5 Results 

 
 The reliability metric rankings are shown in Fig. 1 for the MuJoCo results. We see that, according to Median Performance during training, SAC and TD3 have the best performance and perform similarly well, while REINFORCE performs the worst. However, SAC outperforms TD3 on all reliability metrics during training. Furthermore, both SAC and TD3 perform relatively poorly on all reliability metrics after learning, despite performing best on median performance. 
 
 
 The reliability metric rankings are shown in Fig. 2 for the Atari results. Here we see a similar result that, even though Rainbow performs significantly better than IQN in Median Performance, IQN performs numerically or significantly better than Rainbow on many of the reliability metrics. 
 
 
 The differing patterns in these metrics demonstrates that reliability is a separate dimension that needs to be inspected separately from mean or median performance – two algorithms may have similar median performance but may nonetheless significantly differ in reliability, as with SAC and TD3 above. Additionally, these results demonstrate that reliability along one axis does not necessarily correlate with reliability on other axes, demonstrating the value of evaluating these different dimensions so that algorithms can be compared and selected based on the requirements of the problem at hand. 
 
 
 To see metric results evaluated on a per-environment basis, please refer to Appendix F . Rank order of algorithms was often relatively consistent across the different environments evaluated. However, different environments did display different patterns across algorithms. For example, even though SAC showed the same or better Dispersion across Runs for most of the MuJoCo environments evaluated, it did show slightly worse Dispersion across Runs for the HalfCheetah environment (Fig 7(a) ). This kind of result emphasizes the importance of inspecting reliability (and other performance metrics) on a per-environment basis, and also of evaluating reliability and performance on the environment of interest, if possible. 
 
 
 
 
 6 Conclusion 

 
 We have presented a number of metrics, designed to measure different aspects of reliability of RL algorithms. We motivated the design goals and choices made in constructing these metrics, and also presented practical recommendations for the measurement of reliability for RL. Additionally, we presented examples of applying these metrics to common RL algorithms and environments, and showed that these metrics can reveal strengths and weaknesses of an algorithm that are obscured when we only inspect mean or median performance. 
 
 
 Acknowledgments 

 
 Many thanks to the following people for helpful discussions during the formulation of these metrics and the writing of the paper: Mohammad Ghavamzadeh, Yinlam Chow, Danijar Hafner, Rohan Anil, Archit Sharma, Vikas Sindhwani, Krzysztof Choromanski, Joelle Pineau, Hal Varian, Shyue-Ming Loh, and Tim Hesterberg. Thanks also to Toby Boyd for his assistance in the open-sourcing process, Oscar Ramirez for code reviews, and Pablo Castro for his help with running experiments using the Dopamine baselines data. 
 
 
 
 
 References 

 
 
 Acerbi & Tasche (2002) 
 
Carlo Acerbi and Dirk Tasche.

 
 Expected Shortfall: A Natural Coherent Alternative to
Value at Risk.

 
 Economic Notes , 31(2):379–388, July 2002.

 
 ISSN 0391-5026, 1468-0300.

 
 doi: 10.1111/1468-0300.00091 .

 
 URL http://doi.wiley.com/10.1111/1468-0300.00091 .

 
 
 Bellemare et al. (2017) 
 
Marc G. Bellemare, Will Dabney, and Rémi Munos.

 
 A Distributional Perspective on Reinforcement Learning.

 
 arXiv:1707.06887 [cs, stat] , July 2017.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06887 .

 
 arXiv: 1707.06887.

 
 
 Bäuerle & Ott (2011) 
 
Nicole Bäuerle and Jonathan Ott.

 
 Markov Decision Processes with Average-Value-at-Risk
criteria.

 
 Mathematical Methods of Operations Research , 74(3):361–379, December 2011.

 
 ISSN 1432-2994, 1432-5217.

 
 doi: 10.1007/s00186-011-0367-0 .

 
 URL http://link.springer.com/10.1007/s00186-011-0367-0 .

 
 
 Castro et al. (2018) 
 
Pablo Samuel Castro, Subhodeep Moitra, Carles Gelada, Saurabh Kumar, and
Marc G. Bellemare.

 
 Dopamine: A research framework for deep reinforcement learning.

 
 CoRR , abs/1812.06110, 2018.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.06110 .

 
 
 Chekhlov et al. (2005) 
 
Alexei Chekhlov, Stanislav Uryasev, and Michael Zabarankin.

 
 Drawdown measure in portfolio optimization.

 
 International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance ,
8(1):46, 2005.

 
 
 Chow & Ghavamzadeh (2014) 
 
Yinlam Chow and Mohammad Ghavamzadeh.

 
 Algorithms for CVaR Optimization in MDPs.

 
 Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , pp.  9,
2014.

 
 
 Colas et al. (2018) 
 
Cédric Colas, Olivier Sigaud, and Pierre-Yves Oudeyer.

 
 How Many Random Seeds? Statistical Power Analysis in
Deep Reinforcement Learning Experiments.

 
 arXiv:1806.08295 [cs, stat] , June 2018.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.08295 .

 
 arXiv: 1806.08295.

 
 
 Colas et al. (2019) 
 
Cédric Colas, Olivier Sigaud, and Pierre-Yves Oudeyer.

 
 A Hitchhiker’s Guide to Statistical Comparisons of
Reinforcement Learning Algorithms.

 
 arXiv:1904.06979 [cs, stat] , April 2019.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06979 .

 
 arXiv: 1904.06979.

 
 
 Dabney et al. (2018) 
 
Will Dabney, Georg Ostrovski, David Silver, and Rémi Munos.

 
 Implicit Quantile Networks for Distributional Reinforcement
Learning.

 
 Thirty-fith International Conference on Machine Learning , pp.  10, 2018.

 
 
 Duan et al. (2016) 
 
Yan Duan, Xi Chen, Rein Houthooft, John Schulman, and Pieter Abbeel.

 
 Benchmarking Deep Reinforcement Learning for Continuous
Control.

 
 In International Conference on Machine Learning , pp. 1329–1338, June 2016.

 
 URL http://proceedings.mlr.press/v48/duan16.html .

 
 
 Efron & Tibshirani (1986) 
 
B. Efron and R. Tibshirani.

 
 Bootstrap Methods for Standard Errors, Confidence
Intervals, and Other Measures of Statistical Accuracy.

 
 Statistical Science , 1(1):54–75, February
1986.

 
 ISSN 0883-4237, 2168-8745.

 
 doi: 10.1214/ss/1177013815 .

 
 URL http://projecteuclid.org/euclid.ss/1177013815 .

 
 
 Fortunato et al. (2017) 
 
Meire Fortunato, Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, Bilal Piot, Jacob Menick, Ian
Osband, Alex Graves, Vlad Mnih, Remi Munos, Demis Hassabis, Olivier Pietquin,
Charles Blundell, and Shane Legg.

 
 Noisy Networks for Exploration.

 
 arXiv:1706.10295 [cs, stat] , June 2017.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.10295 .

 
 arXiv: 1706.10295.

 
 
 Fujimoto et al. (2018) 
 
Scott Fujimoto, Herke van Hoof, and David Meger.

 
 Addressing Function Approximation Error in Actor-Critic
Methods.

 
 arXiv:1802.09477 [cs, stat] , February 2018.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1802.09477 .

 
 arXiv: 1802.09477.

 
 
 Golovin et al. (2017) 
 
Daniel Golovin, Benjamin Solnik, Subhodeep Moitra, Greg Kochanski, John Karro,
and D. Sculley.

 
 Google Vizier: A Service for Black-Box Optimization.

 
 In Proceedings of the 23rd ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining - KDD ’17 ,
pp. 1487–1495, Halifax, NS, Canada, 2017. ACM Press.

 
 ISBN 978-1-4503-4887-4.

 
 doi: 10.1145/3097983.3098043 .

 
 URL http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=3097983.3098043 .

 
 
 Greg Brockman et al. (2016) 
 
Greg Brockman, Vicki Cheung, Ludwig Pettersson, Jonas Schneider, John
Schulman, Jie Tang, and Wojciech Zaremba.

 
 OpenAI Gym, 2016.

 
 
 Guadarrama et al. (2018) 
 
Sergio Guadarrama, Anoop Korattikara, Pablo Castro Oscar Ramirez, Ethan Holly,
Sam Fishman, Ke Wang, Chris Harris Ekaterina Gonina, Vincent Vanhoucke, and
Eugene Brevdo.

 
 TF-Agents: A library for reinforcement learning in tensorflow.

 
 https://github.com/tensorflow/agents , 2018.

 
 URL https://github.com/tensorflow/agents .

 
 [Online; accessed 30-November-2018].

 
 
 Haarnoja et al. (2018) 
 
Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine.

 
 Soft Actor-Critic: Off-Policy Maximum Entropy Deep
Reinforcement Learning with a Stochastic Actor.

 
 arXiv:1801.01290 [cs, stat] , January 2018.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1801.01290 .

 
 arXiv: 1801.01290.

 
 
 Hamilton (1994) 
 
James D. Hamilton.

 
 Time Series Analysis .

 
 Princeton University Press, 1994.

 
 
 Henderson et al. (2017) 
 
Peter Henderson, Riashat Islam, Philip Bachman, Joelle Pineau, Doina Precup,
and David Meger.

 
 Deep Reinforcement Learning that Matters.

 
 arXiv:1709.06560 [cs, stat] , September 2017.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06560 .

 
 arXiv: 1709.06560.

 
 
 Hessel & Modayil (2018) 
 
Matteo Hessel and Joseph Modayil.

 
 Rainbow: Combining Improvements in Deep Reinforcement
Learning.

 
 AAAI , pp.  8, 2018.

 
 
 Islam et al. (2017) 
 
Riashat Islam, Peter Henderson, Maziar Gomrokchi, and Doina Precup.

 
 Reproducibility of Benchmarked Deep Reinforcement Learning
Tasks for Continuous Control.

 
 arXiv:1708.04133 [cs] , August 2017.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.04133 .

 
 arXiv: 1708.04133.

 
 
 Lillicrap et al. (2015) 
 
Timothy P. Lillicrap, Jonathan J. Hunt, Alexander Pritzel, Nicolas Heess, Tom
Erez, Yuval Tassa, David Silver, and Daan Wierstra.

 
 Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning.

 
 arXiv:1509.02971 [cs, stat] , September 2015.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1509.02971 .

 
 arXiv: 1509.02971.

 
 
 Machado et al. (2018) 
 
Marlos C. Machado, Marc G. Bellemare, Erik Talvitie, Joel Veness, Matthew
Hausknecht, and Michael Bowling.

 
 Revisiting the Arcade Learning Environment: Evaluation
Protocols and Open Problems for General Agents.

 
 Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research , 61:523–562, March 2018.

 
 ISSN 1076-9757.

 
 doi: 10.1613/jair.5699 .

 
 URL https://www.jair.org/index.php/jair/article/view/11182 .

 
 
 Mnih et al. (2015) 
 
Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A. Rusu, Joel Veness,
Marc G. Bellemare, Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller, Andreas K. Fidjeland,
Georg Ostrovski, Stig Petersen, Charles Beattie, Amir Sadik, Ioannis
Antonoglou, Helen King, Dharshan Kumaran, Daan Wierstra, Shane Legg, and
Demis Hassabis.

 
 Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning.

 
 Nature , 518(7540):529–533, February 2015.

 
 ISSN 1476-4687.

 
 doi: 10.1038/nature14236 .

 
 URL https://www.nature.com/articles/nature14236/ .

 
 
 Nagarajan et al. (2018) 
 
Prabhat Nagarajan, Garrett Warnell, and Peter Stone.

 
 Deterministic Implementations for Reproducibility in Deep
Reinforcement Learning.

 
 arXiv:1809.05676 [cs] , September 2018.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.05676 .

 
 arXiv: 1809.05676.

 
 
 Nelson & Plosser (1982) 
 
Charles R Nelson and Charles I Plosser.

 
 Trends and random walks in macroeconomic time series.

 
 Journal of Monetary Economics , 10:139–162, 1982.

 
 
 Rousseeuw & Croux (1993) 
 
Peter J. Rousseeuw and Christophe Croux.

 
 Alternatives to the MedianAbsolute Deviation.

 
 Journal of the American Statistical Association , 1993.

 
 
 Said E. Said & David A. Dickey (1984) 
 
Said E. Said and David A. Dickey.

 
 Testing for unit roots in autoregressive-moving average models of
unknown order.

 
 Biometrika , 71(3):599–607, 1984.

 
 
 Schulman et al. (2017) 
 
John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov.

 
 Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms.

 
 arXiv:1707.06347 [cs] , July 2017.

 
 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06347 .

 
 arXiv: 1707.06347.

 
 
 Simmons et al. (2011) 
 
Joseph P. Simmons, Leif D. Nelson, and Uri Simonsohn.

 
 False-Positive Psychology: Undisclosed Flexibility in Data
Collection and Analysis Allows Presenting Anything as
Significant.

 
 Psychological Science , 22(11):1359–1366,
November 2011.

 
 ISSN 0956-7976, 1467-9280.

 
 doi: 10.1177/0956797611417632 .

 
 URL http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/0956797611417632 .

 
 
 Sutton et al. (2000) 
 
Richard S Sutton, David A McAllester, Satinder P Singh, and Yishay Mansour.

 
 Policy Gradient Methods for Reinforcement Learning with
Function Approximation.

 
 In NIPS’99 Proceedings of the 12th International
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , pp.  7,
2000.

 
 
 Tamar et al. (2015) 
 
Aviv Tamar, Yonatan Glassner, and Shie Mannor.

 
 Optimizing the CVaR via Sampling.

 
 Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence , pp.  7, 2015.

 
 
 Todorov et al. (2012) 
 
Emanuel Todorov, Tom Erez, and Yuval Tassa.

 
 MuJoCo: A physics engine for model-based control.

 
 In 2012 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems , pp. 5026–5033, Vilamoura-Algarve,
Portugal, October 2012. IEEE.

 
 ISBN 978-1-4673-1736-8 978-1-4673-1737-5 978-1-4673-1735-1.

 
 doi: 10.1109/IROS.2012.6386109 .

 
 URL http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6386109/ .

 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix A Assumptions and Definitions 

 
 Reinforcement Learning algorithms vary widely in design, and our metrics are based on certain notions that should span the gamut of RL algorithms. 
 
 
 
 Policy 
 
 
 A policy is a distribution over actions given a current (input) state . We assume policies are parameterized by a parameter . 
 
 Agent 
 
 
 An agent is defined as a distribution over policies (or equivalently a distribution over parameters ). In many cases, an agent will be a single policy but for population-based RL methods, the agent is a discrete set of policies. 
 
 Window 
 
 
 A window is a collection of states over which the agent is assumed to have small variation. A window could be a sequence of consecutive time steps for a sequential RL algorithm, or a collection of states at the same training step of a distributed RL algorithm with a parameter server (all agents share ). 
 
 Performance 
 
 
 The performance of an agent is the mean or median per-epoch reward from running that agent. If the agent is a single policy, then the performance is the mean or median per-epoch reward for that agent.
If the agent is a distribution of policies, then the performance is the median of with . 
 
 Training Run 
 
 
 A training run is a sequence of updates to the agent from running a reinforcement learning algorithm. It leads to a trained agent . Multiple training runs share no information with each other. 
 
 
 
 
 We cannot directly measure performance since it is a statistic across an infinite sample of evaluation runs of an agent. Instead we use windows to compute sample medians to approximate performance. 
 
 
 
 Appendix B Detrending by differencing 

 
 Typically, de-trending can be performed in two main ways ( Nelson & Plosser, 1982 ; Hamilton, 1994 ) . Differencing (i.e. ) is more appropriate for difference-stationary (DS) processes (e.g. a random walk: ), where the shocks accumulate over time. For trend-stationary (TS) processes, which are characterized by stationary fluctuations around a deterministic trend, e.g. , it is more appropriate to fit and subtract that trend. 
 
 
 We performed an analysis of real training runs and verified that the data are indeed approximately DS, and that differencing does indeed remove the majority of time-dependent structure. For this analysis we used the training runs on Atari as described in 5.2 . Before differencing, the Augmented Dickey-Fuller test (ADF test, also known as a difference-stationarity test; Said E. Said & David A. Dickey (1984) ) rejects the null hypothesis of a unit root on only 72% of the runs; after differencing, the ADF test rejects the null hypothesis on 92% of the runs (p-value threshold 0.05). For the ADF test, the rejection of a unit root (of the autoregressive lag polynomial) implies the alternate hypothesis, which is that the time series is trend-stationary. 
 
 
 Therefore, our training curves are better characterized as an accumulation of shocks, i.e. as DS processes, rather than as mean-reverting TS processes. They are not actually purely DS because the shocks are not stationary over time, but because we compute standard deviation within sliding windows, we can capture the non-stationarity and change in variability over time. Thus, we chose to detrend using differencing. 
 
 
 As a further note in favor of detrending by differencing, it is useful to observe that many measures of variability are defined relative to the central tendency of the data, e.g. the median absolute deviation where is the median of . On the raw data (without differencing), the MAD would be defined relative to as median performance, so that any improvements in performance are included in that computation of variability. On the other hand, if we compute MAD on the 1st-order differences, we are using a that represents the median change in performance, which is a more reasonable baseline to compute variability against, when we are in fact concerned with the variability of those changes. 
 
 
 A final benefit of differencing is that it is parameter-free. 
 
 
 
 Appendix C Illustrations of Permutation Test Procedures 

 
 We illustrate the procedure for computing permutation tests to compare pairs of algorithms on a specified metric, in Figs. 3 (for per-run metrics) and 4 (for across-run metrics). 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix D Raw training curves for OpenAI MuJoCo tasks 

 
 In Figure 5 , we show the raw training curves for the TF-Agents implementations of continuous-control algorithms, applied to the OpenAI MuJoCo tasks. These are compared against baselines from the literature, where available (DDPG and TD3: Fujimoto et al. (2018) , PPO: Schulman et al. (2017) , SAC: Haarnoja et al. (2018) ) 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix E Hyperparameter settings 

 
 For the continuous control experiments, hyperparameters were chosen on a per-environment basis according to the black-box optimization algorithm described in Golovin et al. (2017) . The hyperparameter search space is shown in Table 2 . 
 
 
 For the discrete control experiments, hyperparameter selection is described in ( Castro et al., 2018 ) . Hyperparameters are shown in Table 8 , duplicated for reference from https://github.com/google/dopamine/tree/master/baselines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix F Per-task metric results 

 
 Metric results are shown on a per-task basis in Figs. 6 to 8 for the OpenAI Gym MuJoCo tasks, and Figs. 9 to 23 for the Atari environments. Note that because we are no longer aggregating across tasks in this analysis, we do not need to convert the metric values to rankings. 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 6: Across-time reliability metrics for continuous control RL algorithms tested on OpenAI Gym environments, evaluated on a per-environment basis. 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 7: Across-run reliability metrics and median performance for continuous control RL algorithms tested on OpenAI Gym environments, evaluated on a per-environment basis. The x-axes indicate the number of environment steps. 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 8: Reliability metrics and median performance on fixed-policy rollouts for continuous control RL algorithms tested on OpenAI Gym environments, evaluated on a per-environment basis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experimental support, please
 view the build logs 
 for errors. Generated by
 
 
 L
 A 
 T
 E 
 
 xml 
 
 .
 
 
 Instructions for reporting errors 
 We are continuing to improve HTML versions of papers, and your feedback helps enhance accessibility and mobile
 support. To report errors in the HTML that will help us improve conversion and rendering, choose any of the
 methods listed below: 
 
 Click the "Report Issue" ( ) button, located in the page header. 
 
 Tip: You can select the relevant text first, to include it in your report. 
 Our team has already identified the following issues . We appreciate your time reviewing and reporting rendering errors we
 may not have found yet. Your efforts will help us improve the HTML versions for all readers, because disability
 should not be a barrier to accessing research. Thank you for your continued support in championing open access for
 all. 
 Have a free development cycle? Help support accessibility at arXiv! Our collaborators at LaTeXML maintain a list of packages that need conversion , and welcome developer contributions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 We gratefully acknowledge support from
 our major funders ,
 member institutions , ,
 and all contributors.
 
 
 About 
 · 
 Help 
 · 
 Contact 
 · 
 Subscribe 
 · 
 Copyright 
 · 
 Privacy 
 · 
 Accessibility 
 · 
 Operational Status (opens in new tab) 
 
 

 
 Major funding support from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
